Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Yes. I'm David Frazee. I'm the General Manager and Vice President
of 3M's Digital Oral Care business.
So what do you do exactly?
So our business at 3M ESPE Dental,
for my product category,
is for digital dentistry.
Or providing products that are used in the dentist's office,
or the orthodontist's office,
to do visualization and data capture and things like that,
to make impression taking much simpler
than it has been in the past.
And that leads to a whole bunch of opportunities in the future
with digital impression data,
to improve dentistry
by making new applications that, before this technology existed,
could not be done.
Can you describe the technology
and the product you're promoting?
The true definition scanner product
is a device that scans the teeth.
It's very fast.
It can take a digital impression in just a couple of minutes.
That data is then captured and then analyzed
and then uploaded to the cloud.
And from the cloud then,
the consumers of the data would be a dental lab,
or an orthodontic lab,
or some other way to manufacture something for dentistry
is then built using digital data as input.
For example with a CAD cam system, even in a lab.
So with the CAD cam system
you can almost perfectly design a custom crown,
for example, for a patient,
that can be manufactured using high-tech manufacturing things,
like milling or even 3D printing.
Then you can place that in the mouth on the next visit
and you're almost guaranteed to have a perfect fit.
And everybody wants to go to the dentist
and have everything happen smoothly.
So it's a great opportunity to improve oral care,
as well as make it easy on the patient and the dentist.
What does this replace?
What existing technology or product would it replace?
Probably for the last 80 years,
when you went to the dentist and had to have a crown,
or something like a crown, you would have that goo material,
and you bite down on it, for sometimes 5 minutes,
and then you'd pull it out of the mouth,
and that impression is used to create the rest of the restoration,
or some other measurements of the mouth,
for braces and things like that.
So rather than take that analog impression we call it,
let's digitize that at the beginning,
and make it all essentially automated.
And it relieved a lot of the stress and burden
of shipping things around and trying to keep track of it.
Let's just send it through the cloud,
and make it digital all the way, so take a scan,
and the next step might be that your restoration arrives
in the mail to the dentist's office and drops in,
that's the only thing ever created.
As opposed to these intermediate steps.
There's still a lot of value in that process,
but making a digital makes it better, faster, easier for everyone.
Now when most people think 3M they might think of
office, home supplies, so,
how many branches do you have
and how did this one start?
That's a great question. So,
sells products all across the world
in all sorts of different divisions or sectors.
There's 5 major sectors,
and in fact the healthcare sector,
which is the business group where the dental division resides,
is over 5 billion dollars annually,
with products for operating rooms and products for doctor's offices,
but also the dental and orthodontic business.
So the dental and orthodontic business today
comprise about 1/3 of the healthcare business.
And it's a very prominent part of the portfolio for 3M
and the innovation that comes from the rest of the company
finds its way to dental very quickly and naturally in 3M.
Where are you currently marketing this
and do you have any globalization plans to market overseas?
We do.
The true definition scanner has been launched in the United States
for the last couple of years,
and is now in 4 or 5 of the major developed markets.
Western Europe, going to Japan later this year,
it's in Australia and New Zealand, it's in Canada.
So all of those have begun to come online
and we'll continue to expand that throughout the rest of the world
over the next couple of years.
Great. How long have you been at 3M?
I've been at 3M 10 years this month.
And so, what all have you done there?
I joined 3M to run the corporate research lab for software electronics
and did that for about 5 years.
And then have worked in the dental business,
first in R&D and now in the business for the last 5.
Almost exclusively focused on
how do we make digital a more natural part of oral care,
and oral treatments,
and bring some of the cool mobile, cloud, visual technology,
into the dentist's office to make the care of patients
and the use by doctors.
Much easier, more natural.
Like the phones and the tablets and things like that.
Was your background in the healthcare industry?
I've been in the healthcare industry for my entire career.
In radiology business prior to this
and then in some other medical imaging applications,
including this one.
Very nice.
All right, well thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you.
All right, thanks.
