Hi. I m Rob. I m your Uber driver today.
Thank you.
I ve been working for Uber for about eight months.
I had never driven a taxi,
or any other car service before I started working for Uber.
It was an opportunity to earn some extra cash on the side,
and, you know, pay some extra bills.
I enjoy working for Uber.
They treat me well and they pay me weekly with direct deposit.
You know, Uber really distinguishes itself from other taxi services
because it s a private car service as opposed to just a regular taxi.
They re higher-end vehicles with private drivers,
and it s easier to pick up and drop off.
With a regular taxi service you have to call them
and then wait fifteen-twenty minutes for a driver to get there.
With Uber you just pop in your location on your app, on your phone,
and then the driver s there in three to five minutes,
and you re just ready to go.
The process for becoming an Uber driver is pretty simple.
First you just get online, you fill out their application,
they ll send you through a background check,
and then after that they ask you what kind of car you drive.
And if your car meets their requirements,
they send you a phone with the Uber driver app,
and you just go from there.
On a normal day I pick up anywhere from eight to twelve passengers for rides.
Most common destination would probably be office buildings,
depending on what time of day.
If I'm driving later at night,
it'll be restaurants or bars or hotels.
It just sort of depends on the time of day.
Longest drive I've ever done was from downtown Dallas to the airport,
and that was about twenty miles.
The way the app works from a driver's perspective is
when a passenger needs to be picked up, if I'm closest to them,
it'll automatically pop up on my phone.
And I just head to that location, pick them up.
When they get in my car I can start,
I press a button on the phone,
and it'll start my navigation to their destination
if they've already put it in the phone.
Otherwise I'll get it from them and put it in myself.
But I'll just follow the nav from the app,
and when I get there, I drop them off,
I click the button on the phone, and the ride's done.
Generally a ride from downtown Dallas to the airport will run about forty bucks.
That can change depending on the demand, but it's generally forty dollars.
Generally I work about three to five hours a day for Uber.
That's on top of my regular job.
But on the weekends I might work more.
I think I'll be driving for Uber for about another six months to a year,
just depending on my circumstances.
This job really helps put some extra money in my pocket.
Especially around the holidays and stuff like that.
It's really convenient because I can work my own hours,
and pick when I wanna work,
and where I wanna work to make extra money.
And it's not my regular gig so it's really convenient to have that extra cash.
This isn't my first time taking Uber.
I've been using the service
much more frequently over the last six or eight months.
So I've probably taken Uber once or twice every week recently.
I would say maybe a total of thirty or forty times overall.
Typically if I'm going to see a client,
and I need a nicer vehicle or a driver,
someone that will enable me to interact with my clients while I'm taking them out.
Or even late at night, it's much easier,
to have someone drive you to and from a place
where you might be drinking alcohol or partying.
So the app's great.
Typically whenever I want a ride I can fire up the app.
I can see how many drivers are in the area,
how long it might take for them to get to me,
even how much the fare might cost for me to go to my location.
And then it shows what type of car I might want,
so I can decide whether or not I want to do the Uber Black,
which is a nicer vehicle like we're riding in now.
Or I can do just the standard Uber X,
which is a regular vehicle, typically a Sedan or something.
What do you like or dislike about Uber?
One of my favorite things about Uber is just the convenience.
Instead of having to call up a taxi company,
I can just get on my phone, order the ride.
I don't have to worry about paying in cash or charging a card,
all of my payment info is tied to the application itself.
I can see exactly when the driver is going to arrive to pick me up.
One of the things that I dislike about Uber
is dependent on the time of day or the area that I'm in,
is sometimes they will raise the rates,
and it's just inconvenient.
Because you get used to a certain standard price
for going from location to location,
and I don't like that they fluctuate on occasion.
I plan on using Uber very frequently for the foreseeable future.
Uber is one of the staples of my day-to-day business life at this point.
Well thank you very much Rob.
You too. Have a good day.
You as well.

Hi.
William Tsumpes, T3 Motion.
All right.
So, tell me a little bit about your company.
Little bit about our company.
So, we were founded in 2006.
We basically built the company with a team of hi-tech engineers,
designing electric stand-up vehicle technology.
At the time, Segway have entered the market and had a two-wheel platform.
Our engineers looked at that and said,
"This is a very dangerous vehicle especially for a consumer to ride."
And so we began engineering on the world's first three-wheel electric stand-up vehicle.
So, tell me a little bit about this vehicle.
Okay.
So, the T3 patrollers, as we call it,
was designed specifically for government and law enforcement applications.
It's used by more than 350 police departments around the world.
You'll find President Bush with one on the ranch.
You'll find us at the White House.
You'll find us at the Pentagon, CIA, FBI, US branches of military as well.
We're throughout law enforcement.
We've got 50 of them in the subways of New York
and the streets of New York, San Francisco to Los Angeles PD.
The Grove in Miami has got a dozen of them in downtown Miami.
So the vehicles are a great tool especially for law enforcement applications
where you got a typical patrol officer on foot, foot officer doing a foot patrols.
This places an officer above crowd level, better line of sight,
better visibility, more commanding presence.
I know you can add at this.
So you've got a huge domestic market, where are you internationally?
Internationally, we're in 50 international airports around the world,
so you'll find us in the airports in Singapore.
You'll find us even on Seoul, Korea as a matter of fact.
We've got about 16 or 18 vehicles in Seoul with the Seoul Police Department.
We've got most of the international airports around the world,
even both here in North America as well as internationally.
You'll find us in the airports in the United States
such as the Atlanta Airport, Los Angeles International, John Wayne in Orange County
- San Francisco occasionally uses some of the airport
- in San Francisco at SFO, San Diego, LaGuardia, Kennedy,
airports all over the country and all over the world.
What makes your vehicle better than the Segway?
Well, number one factor that we had to consider when designing our vehicle, of course,
was that we were after the professional, and government, and law enforcement market
where you've got professional riders with daily routines on these vehicles.
So of course, safety is a big factor.
That was the reason for the invention of the three-wheel platform just for its stability.
Additionally, our vehicles today are built through different models
where the stand-up patroller vehicles got a non-suspension model.
And then depending upon your terrain, we also have a front-suspension vehicle.
Now, we work with Good Year in the design of an air suspension vehicle
with on-board compressors, self-leveling, adjustable ride height and ride stiffness,
so that you can actually contour the ride of the vehicle to the terrain that you ride on.
That is really important as you get into urban streets and things like this.
A lot of times with cracks, potential potholes, or whatever else
it may be in a metro area like New York City or even the streets of Dallas
where the Dallas Police Department has been using our vehicles for about seven years.
So we're working on the new vehicle design that we've done with the air suspension.
It was actually designed in cooperation with the Dallas Police Department
and their team leaders out of Dallas who came to California
to assist us in the evaluation of three different designs
to ensure that we could produce the most stable, high performance vehicle possible on three wheels.
Wow.
Tell me a little bit about your target audience.
Are you only targeting law enforcement or anybody else?
Well, it's a great question because just recently, about six months ago,
we introduced our first product that does have applications into the consumer market.
We called it our Vision Series.
And the Vision Series vehicle, we have on campuses even with students at USC.
And actually, that vehicle is proving to do well indoors.
So where we have the large patrol vehicles outdoors,
as an example of John Wayne international Airport in Orange County, California.
There on the outside perimeter of the airport, we've got four of the large vehicles.
And then indoors, they've got three of these new smaller Vision Series of vehicles
that were perfectly well suited to do patrols in high-density areas.
We got a lot of foot traffic, pedestrian traffic,
and things like that where a smaller footprint has advantages in terms of access
and things like that in crowded areas,
so it does very well indoors.
How are you funded?
We are privately funded actually.
Company currently is debt free, has roughly 
we've got millions of dollars of operating capital available to us,
as well as the fact that the company has just turned profitable here
in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Nice.
So what are your plans for the future?
Plans for the future.
One of the biggest markets in the world in terms of EV technology
is going to be the commercial and industrial markets.
Commercial and industrial markets are projected to grow
to be a $185 billion opportunity by 2025.
So it's our intentions to lead the commercial and industrial market
into our new vehicle technology.
We've got new ambulance designs that are electrically powered.
We've got mail and postal delivery vehicles.
We've even got material's handling vehicles that can be used in factories, for shop floor,
and production team transportation in large factory environments,
and as well as materials handling where today they're using forklifts
to move boxes of paperclips and pencils.
We've got an easy solution that will run for about five cents a day of electricity,
picking parts somewhere else.
Tell me about the history of the company.
What made you guys want to start this in the first place?
Well, it started as kind of a design exercise, and actually,
we went out in 2006 and brought in a number of different engineers
to help assist in the vehicle.
Electric vehicle technology is evolving every day.
Battery technology changes.
Charging technology changes, the make-up of the materials that go into the cells.
It's been an exercise and an ongoing development process
to really refine the vehicle from the first stages of being just an electrically powered vehicle.
There was even in the beginning,
powered by lead acid batteries to a design today that incorporates removable,
exchangeable, or interchangeable battery packs that are hot swappable,
that are based on a lithium polymer type of technology.
Actually, it's a hybrid cell technology that allows the vehicle to not only obtain quick acceleration
as you've seen by the way the vehicles are 
the way they accelerate when they're driven, but also the long endurance,
so that the vehicles have a long duty cycle on a set of batteries.
We can actually go about 50 miles on a four-hour charge.
And at the end of that 50-mile range, actually in a 30-second operation,
swap the battery packs out, and put in new ones, and go another 50 miles.
That's same technology - and we actually own the patterns on that technology
- we now see Tesla using in the new Tesla vehicles that are being built here in the US
with interchangeable battery packs.
As a matter of fact, we're investigating the way that they're doing that
because we think that there may be some crossover into our intellectual property
on those designs that date back to 2006.
Very interesting.
So tell me a little bit more about the specs of your vehicle.
In the future, will you continue to upgrade and in what ways?
Sure.
So we're always trying to evolve the vehicles.
So as an example, our Stand-up Patroller Series.
We've got a new series we now call the Elite Series.
It was launched in mid-2014 worldwide.
The inner body we've partnered with Line-X
and we're using the Line-X body coatings on the front fenders and the inner bodies
to help ensure the durability of the product.
It's scratch-resistant, things of that nature.
It also adds increased strength as a coating to our front fenders,
which are composite material,
if someone was to run into a wall or a stationary object,
perhaps, it may have been prone to crack.
So we have improved the strength there.
We're also constantly changing and upgrading battery technology.
We've got some new fast charger designs that are in test right now
that allow us to actually do a full charge of the vehicle's batteries
for a 50 mile range on a two-hour charge cycle
making it the fastest charge time of anything out there.
As a matter of fact, that rivals what the traditional automotive manufacturers
are getting in their plugin hybrids and electric vehicles today.
If you look at a Nissan Leaf, they've got a two-hour charge time.
They get a little bit longer endurance
so they've got a much better, bigger battery pack and much more space to work with.
But we actually,
in terms of the cycle, recharging cycle, rival what they are able to do even in their platforms.
Other areas that we're working on, as I mentioned,
we just got the new air suspensions stuff out
and that's really done a lot to allow us to go faster vehicles.
Our vehicles right now are electronically limited at 25 mile an hour.
Although with the power and the performance that we have in our custom-designed electric motors,
we can actually go much faster than that.
We could probably do it pretty safe in maintaining a certain level of safety factor there.
We've also done some neat innovation lately,
so we do have a big presence in campus security.
As you look at campuses like USC here in Los Angeles,
the USC campus patrols both on and off campus with 30 of our vehicles in a campus security program.
So we've got video cameras with 160 degree visibility,
view angles on these things that allow a patrol officer to actually film anything
- interviews, a student, or somebody maybe who shouldn't be on the campus.
We've got video surveillance built into the vehicles with up to 360-degree visibility.
And with all the shooting things that are happening
and all the horrible things that are happening on campuses all over the world today,
we've actually just introduced a product that's called Active Vision.
Active Vision is a real-time streaming video surveillance system that rides on the front of the vehicle,
very small camera, HD camera that will actually stream live video from that vehicle,
wherever it is back to law enforcement over the Internet through a secure website.
So, that's really a great, great tool where you can actually take that vehicle into that environment
and actually position it anywhere remotely on the campus
to have live surveillance without putting people in harm's way.
As a matter of fact, we got a Kevlar shield option for the vehicle
that goes with that as an option that actually allows the vehicle to become a shield
so in the event that you've got a campus shooting like that
or active shooter in any kind of environment.
It could be a shopping mall or any kind of facility
that the vehicle actually acts as a shield to protect the law enforcement officer
while streaming the live video into law enforcement agencies,
so that they can form their tactical strategy on how to mitigate the problem.
So this could be used with military agencies as well.
Military as well.
A matter of fact, that same technology,
we also have a new HD infrared camera that fronts mounts on the vehicle,
and that's really valuable.
I mean we're proposing that into some of the US military operations for base camp operations
because what it does,
it gives a patrol officer or airman the ability to do night surveillance from the vehicle
with night vision, with an onboard seven-inch TFT display, high definition display,
so that he can actually see through the infrared vision of the camera,
what's out there around the perimeter of the camp that you would never see otherwise
- just based on the heat print.
Okay.
So tell me a little bit about your team, your employees, and the company culture.
Sure.
So, we're very organic and that we do as much as we can
in terms of the manufacturing of the vehicle in house, so we don't like to do outsourcing.
A number of years ago in the beginning,
we would try to go overseas
and offshored a lot of our manufacturing processes, steel, and things of this nature,
and we found that we couldn't get the quality that we wanted in the product from overseas manufacturers.
Aside from that, you've got to look at who our customer is.
90% of our customers are government and law enforcement agencies,
and they put their lives on the line every day when they use our vehicles.
So safety and the strength of the product,
the integrity of the product is vital to anything that we do.
So we're very proud today to say that we are made in America.
So the entire vehicle is made in America.
The only thing that we do anything offshore with 
we do offshore a little bit of our electronics and our charging circuits,
just due to supply chain issues,
where we are much more capable with some of our designs to get them overseas,
even out of Japan, than we are here in North America.
So it simplifies and expedites our manufacturing to bring that stuff in from overseas,
as opposed to trying to import components and then manufacture it here.
But with about 90%, as I said, of our market being centered around government,
law enforcement, and professional security professionals,
made in America is a very valuable asset for our company for us
to be able to speak about the quality of our product.
Have you been contacted by any other organizations abroad?
We have.
We service law enforcement and government.
Just this week, we got nine units shipping to Chile for the Chilean Police Department.
They've already got a fleet of a dozen over there.
We sell to governments all throughout the middle east - Israel, Europe, the Paris police.
Canadian police even in Montreal at the airports use our vehicles.
So the international market for us.
One of our biggest opening and emerging markets right now is Africa.
As a matter of fact, Africa this year has accounted for about 25% of our volume production here.
We've opened up a new opportunity down in South Africa.
We've just delivered about 90 vehicles into the Passenger Rail Association of South Africa,
which is a high-speed bullet train.
So we've now got electric vehicles of all the bullet train terminals in South Africa,
even down at the Cape Town, Johannesburg.
We are expanding into Nigeria and a number of other countries on the continent down there.
The market is just hot as it can be bringing EV technology into a land there
that is very challenged in many ways.
It's a great emerging opportunity.
Is there anything else you'd like to add?
Well, thank you for the interview today - very happy to be here.
We're very proud of what we've accomplished.
I think you're going to see if you watch the company.
Our website is www.t3motion.com.
You'll see in 2015, we'll be launching four new vehicle platforms.
And we're actually going to expand our product line
beyond the three-wheel platform into emergency medical response,
materials handling, and some of the other things that we spoke about today - even postal delivery.
So we expect great things here
in terms of growth and the development of the commercial/industrial electric vehicle market
which, again, we believe will equal, if not surpass, anything done in the consumer space
with electrical vehicle technology in the future.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, sir, real pleasure.
Thank you.

My name is Robert Earl
and currently I am doing kind of a technical support
for physicians, primarily physicians
in the San Francisco Bay area,  the Silicon Valley.
I set up servers, I set up PCs
and make sure that all of the networking is installed and working properly.
I assist them in purchasing the equipment,
obtaining the broadband service,
the internet service that they need,
and troubleshoot any kind of problems
they have with the hardware,
and with the software, and viruses and such.
I've been in the industry since 1971
and progressed through a period of writing application software on mainframes.
Originally, a business software
to working on the mainframe operating system software.
It was with Control Data Corporation.
So these were big scientific mainframes.
And moved on to my career
and went to work for a company called Sperry Univac.
Sperry Univac was a big company back in 60's and 70's.
Again, did mainframes used primarily in business orientations
and some scientific orientations.
I worked for them for a couple years
and then I moved from the...
this was all in the Washington DC metropolitan area that I was working
and I moved from there out to California
to work with service bureau companies.
Service bureau companies back in the late 80's,
early 90's that's when I...
Let me think again, that may not be correct.
Earlier we... I guess it was late '79, '80 that we did this.
And service bureau companies were companies
that could afford to buy the mainframes
and sell time on them to companies that needed,
couldn't afford to buy a big 16 million dollar mainframe
but they needed to run scientific analysis on their programs
and I worked in a field office supporting that.
Both the tax support and the pre-sales support for that.
I then progressed my career
to move to working for a company called 
At the time they were called, EDS Nuclear.
They changed their name to  IMPEL
and then they got bought by another engineer.
But they were an engineering company
that designed the hangars for nuclear power plants,
and they had a controlled data main frame
and they needed someone to support that
and also to help them support some of their business stuff.
And they had purchased at that time many computers.
So, we went from mainframes to many computers
to what we have today are
what would have been considered back then as a micro.
So the manys use back then would have been a VAX
or an HP or data general.
So I managed and supported the HP business machine that they had
and of course the control data main frame
that they used for doing their scientific analysis.
That company got purchased
and so I kind of had to change my career a little bit
and I moved in to the work station.
So I moved from working on a mainframe
on a mini computer to basically work stations.
Back then, I don't know if anybody will remember these,
but they were Apollo and Sunborg stations,
were the big competitors
and there was an up-and-coming company
then called Silicon Graphics
that was building graphics workstations
that were designed more for 3D animation graphics
than the Apollos or the Suns.
The Apollos and the Suns were for CAD/CAM design work, primarily.
I was working for a company that tried to build...
a company called Edge Computer,
and we were building our own version of a work station
that was to compete with the Silicon Graphics one.
We managed to place some systems for doing rendering
and graphics work in a couple of Disney movies - cartoons.
So at the time that was kind of fun and interesting.
I worked on those projects.
And then we moved to...
then I moved from, from there,
I actually went to work for one of the companies
that we were trying to get Edge computers into,
which was a company called Wavefront Technologies.
Wavefront was based out of Santa Barbara, California.
They did 3D animation graphic software.
So a lot of the things back in 
'85, '86, '87 time frame,
where you would see on TV,
you would see the 3D flying logos, fancy kind of stuff,
that was done by Wavefront software
and a couple other companies' software.
Of course, this was a start-up,
so it was a young company.
By this time, that's when I'm working in startups.
So Edge was a start-up,
this was a start-up, and...
How many startups have you been involved in?
How long have you been in Silicon Valley as well?
I've been in Silicon...if you consider the Bay Area of Silicon Valley,
then I've been there since 1979.
But, I've really been down in Silicon Valley since about '91.
I think it was when I moved back.
No, I'm sorry,
'89 is when I moved back into what would really be considered as Silicon Valley.
I've always been in the high-tech stuff.
So although Silicon Valley is really the center of this,
when I moved to California,
I moved to the North Bay area.
And then, I moved to Southern California,
and that's where you know the entertainment industry
and the graphics industry or the 3D graphics stuff would be happening.
A lot of that happens down there.
Not a lot of it was, not a lot of the innovative stuff are for that is actually...
was done in Silicon Valley at the time.
You had Pixar, okay, which was 
I'm talking about Wavefront and Pixar were competitors.
So clearly no one knows who Wavefront is,
so guess who won the battle there?
It would have been Pixar.
But Pixar really wasn't in Silicon valley either.
When you get into different types of disciplines
with what you're looking at,
you'll see that now the hardware -
certainly all the hardware for this stuff is being designed
and built in Silicon Valley but the software not necessarily.
So tell me again about Silicon Valley.
What defines Silicon Valley exactly?
Geographically, and...
Well, okay.
So when you think of Silicon Valley,
what you're thinking of is the miniaturization of electronics.
So, you know we all went from big tubes.
So your radio went from these big tubes that were in your radio,
and now they're all solid-state.
They're all with transistors and resistors and those kinds of things.
The movement from the tube to the transistor, that would be,
I think, what you would consider Silicon Valley.
Because that's moving from this big stuff.
I don't know the electronics of it enough to be able to tell you
but it's moving from these big components,
these glass tubes with vacuum systems
in them and stuff like that
to stuff that's made from silicon, silicon being sand.
So that miniaturization is what you would define as Silicon Valley.
When you think of computers,
you might think,
"Well, Silicon Valley is a big thing. 
Well actually, IBM and Control Data and Univac,
these were the big mainframe computers.
These were not built in Silicon Valley.
They were built in the Midwest and then on the East Coast.
So Silicon Valley I think you have to define as being the area
where the innovation came to miniaturize the electronics all the way round.
It doesn't have to be just computers.
It goes out to your radios and all your other components.
Your audio components, your video components.
All of that stuff has been a result of Silicon Valley innovation.
So I think that's what you'd define as Silicon Valley.
So, development of Silicon Valley probably started in the 70's, in reality,
because that's when Fairchild Heller starting doing their work,
and HP started to do their things.
I mean HP's considered a computer company,
but we all have to realize they actually started out doing test equipment.
So that would be what I would consider the definition of Silicon Valley.
Now, geographically, it's that area.
Palo Alto to San Jose is what's really considered the original Silicon Valley.
So you'll hear names like Sunnyvale.
That was a big area of growth.
Palo Alto,  Menlo Park.
Menlo Park right now was probably more known for the financial investors that are there.
Still a lot in Palo Alto,
because so much comes out of Stanford.
So I think that's the whole thing.
I mean, that's what I would define.
So, last question,
how many startups have you worked with since you've been in the area?
Let's see, one, two, three.
Four start-ups and I did work for one group when I worked for Alleveti.
Alleveti was a huge Italian company
but our group was almost like a start-up.
We were pretty independent
and run separate from the guys over in Italy.
So it was kind of fun.
Would you have any advice or any companies who were looking to open office in Silicon Valley?
You know, I've always been in the technical end,
so my advice probably is not very appropriate for someone opening an office.
But I think the networking is a big deal.
So as long as you're centrally located in some area,
you could pick almost anywhere up and down that peninsula area to be.
I would say, if you're really, really hot into it,
the closer you can get to Palo Alto
the better off you're going to be
because that's where all of the big investor groups are
and that's where you get a lot of contact.
And of course, anytime that you're near Stanford that's going to be key.
I mean all of Google, Yahoo, all these guys came out of Stanford.
Right. All right thank you very much, I appreciate it.
You're welcome.

Yes.
Hi, my name is Peter Hargittay.
and I am the Chief Marketing Officer and VP of Business Development at Interneer.
So tell me a little bit about what Interneer is
and what kind of services you provide.
Great. So Interneer is a software company,
we are a enterprise software company,
and we focus on the Business Process Management,
or BPM industry.
And what that means is that we help organizations automate
a wide variety of different business processes.
So it can be anything from a HR process,
like on-boarding new employees or employee transfer,
promotions, that sort of thing.
Or it can be used for contract management or capital expenditures.
But the basic idea is that we help companies capture information,
and then move it throughout the organization.
So that organizations have things approved on time.
They know who approved it,
when they approved it.
And we help to basically move business forward.
So can you give me any examples of other companies
who may have used your product,
and what kind of success stories they may have had?
Sure, absolutely.
So one company that's a great one is Princess Cruises.
Princess Cruises is a large cruise line here in the United States,
and they have 18 ships.
These are significant, very large ships.
And they actually have about 25,000 employees supporting these ships.
So Princess Cruises uses our software for HR purposes,
anything from hiring new employees to scheduling their time.
This way now everyone knows exactly where they're going to be,
on what ship,doing what function.
And then if there's any other additional needs like counseling,
even a certification or learning - all of those HR
related processes are automated and captured using our software.
Great.
So tell me about the history of your company.
How you came up with the name,
the CEO and then where you're based and just the basics.
Sure. The first thing is, we've been around for about 15 years now.
And the way name came about,
is that Interneer is the combination of two words.
- internet and engineering.
So our founder Romeo Elias - he's also our CEO at the moment
he basically was a engineering student at UCLA,
and he came up with this concept of how can organizations be more efficient
with their business processes,
especially engineering companies.
So at the time the Internet of course was booming,
and so he kind of combined these two words Internet and engineering
and came up with Interneer.
Now our product though is called Intellect,
because we like to think that we help organizations
add a little intellect to their organizations.
So we also go by that name as well.
And how many employees are working there?
So we currently have well over 25 employees at the moment.
And with our hiring plans in place,
we should be around 30 or so in the next few months.
Great.
Can you talk a little bit about the company culture.
Yeah. So our company culture is great.
First of all,I joined about a year ago, a year and a half ago now
and it's the first time in probably a decade
that I can say that I love my job.
And the reason I love my job is because first of all,
our CEO is very open-minded.
He loves hearing new ideas and he is very receptive to that.
So really everyone at the organization is a contributor,
it's a true team environment and we help each other,
we develop new solutions together,
and we're building a business together.
Great.
So where you all.. tell me about what countries you're in,
what continents and where you see yourself spreading.
Sure. So we have about 300 clients in total.
The majority of them are here in the United States,
but we are expanding globally.
So really in all directions.
Asia is very interesting for us.
We're looking at some opportunities there,
some partnership opportunities as well.
We're very open to finding some new partners
that may help us explore that region of the world.
We've done that actually in Costa Rica or in Latin America.
We have a great partner there that's helping us to expand in Latin America.
In Europe, we have a little bit of a longer track record.
We've been in Europe for a few years now.
We have dozens of customers there,
and a handful of very strong partners.
Great. Can you describe your business model?
Sure. It's all web-based,
and so the software's web-based.
Therefore, the software is available in the cloud.
So it's a SAS offering,
or it can be installed on premises.
And what that means, is that you can install on your own servers
and that's something that some clients like.
And in all cases,
the pricing is a subscription based model.
So you would pay basically a monthly fee every month.
So similar to like a salesforce.com.
So we try to be very aggressive with pricing,
and our mission really is to disrupt the BPM industry.
We are offering a fantastic award winning solution
that's the first thing.
And then from a pricing standpoint,
we really are trying to come in at a price point that is very aggressive.
Let me ask you a couple personal questions.
So describe your educational background
and how that lead you to this job?
So first off, my education is a mostly business background.
I have my undergraduate degree in economics from Cal State Fullerton,
here in Southern California.
And then I have my MBA as well from Cal State Fullerton.
My education,I think has played a key role in helping me to really look at things
from a business perspective.
I always encourage anyone who works for me to consider an MBA.
I am a very big fan of those programs.
What do you like so much about the MBA versus someone
who might have experience but doesn't have an MBA?
I think it just helps you to think about things in a different way.
And certainly, by the way
by no means is an MBA needed,
people can be very successful without one.
But I just think that an MBA or really any kind of masters program
that is geared towards a business person,
would help them think about business needs,
different strategies,
helps them open up ideas for growth at the end of the day.
And is there anything else you'd like to add?
Yeah, I think I just wanted to mention that
I think today's global environment is fantastic.
There's just so many opportunities out there.
I think it just takes us a moment to sit back
and think about what to do and how to do it,
and if somebody is interested in technology
and looking at a market that's global,
they can absolutely achieve that.
So I just think it's a very exciting time for our industry today.
All right.
Well, thanks a lot for your time,
I appreciate it and good luck.
Great, thank you.

My name is Niall Wall.
I'm Senior Vice President of Business and Corporate Development at Box.
Tell me exactly what is Box and what kind of services do you provide?
Box is a company that's solving very important problem for businesses around the world.
We're connecting users and the users' most important information
to make businesses more collaborative and more innovative.
We're basically using Cloud-based technologies
to allow secure access to content and collaboration around that content,
specifically focused on the enterprise market.
Do you have any key competitors
and how would you compare your service to them?
Yeah. There's.. it's a Cloud collaboration.
Cloud storage is a very competitive market so there are many different competitors.
There's two main types of competitors.
One is a company called Dropbox who you may be familiar with.
They're very much a consumer version of Box.
They allow people to get access to content on mobile devices
but mainly around photos and consumer type of applications.
Then on the enterprise side, we would look at a company like Microsoft with
a product called OneDrive as part of Office 365 as a competitor.
How do you target your audience specifically?
Box is solving problems for businesses of all sizes.
We have 340,000 active companies around the world,
in every country of the world, using Box today.
We target customers that have a need to use consumer-oriented,
end user experiences for collaboration and mobile apps,
but marry that with the needs of what an enterprise will need to ensure
that the content  that is being collaborated on or shared from Box
has the highest level of security and corporate governance and control.
So any company whether it's a small business,
all the way to some of the largest Fortune Five companies on the planet
are using Box today to do what we can enable them to do.
Can you tell me an example of what one company is using Box for right now?
Sure.
General Electric, which is a large US-based multinational company,
they are using Box throughout the whole company.
So for instance, when architects are building new plants, power plants,
they have the ability to securely collaborate on blueprints
using the Box infrastructure.
Sony is another example,
where the recent Playstation 4 project and
all of the new media that was created for that new titles for that Playstation,
were actually built on Box.
So in the case of Sony,
they actually had all of the different external creative designers
building new titles and new games
and they actually use Box as that collaboration space,
and that actually made the creation not only of Playstation 4
but the actual titles that went along with that actually come to market much faster.
Tell me a little bit about the company culture.
Company culture is probably one of the most important things
as a leader Box that we focus on.
We're a fast growing, innovative company
that's disrupting very large markets,
but we're a youthful company.
We have very simple and maybe corporate cultures
that are unique to a company like Box
but might not be that comfortable for a lot of older companies.
The three corporate cultures are
"Make Mom proud",
"Bring your wacky self to work", and "Trust each other".
Let me maybe translate what that means.
"Make Mom proud" means that if you do something,
you want to make sure that
your mother would actually be happy that you did that.
"Bring your wacky self to work" means that
you can be the individual
that you are outside of work.
We encourage you to be that individual when you come to work.
You don't have to have a different personal
when you're at home on the weekend
with your friends or working with your colleagues at Box.
We want you to be that person that you are.
And "Trust each other" is
something that is we hire the best,
we focus on getting the best talent we could possibly do,
and we expect if you are yourself
and you make Mom proud, you will do the right thing for Box.
Last question - tell me exactly what you specifically do at Box.
I lead a team that creates new revenue streams for Box.
We do deals that allow other companies to use Box in their applications, or they use Box to sell to their customers.
So global telcos like DT in Germany, Telefonica all over Europe,
AT&T in the United States, and hopefully a lot of Asian carriers
that we're currently working with but we haven't yet announced,
are using Box as a service that they offer to their business customers.
That's what my team does.
Thank you very much, and good luck.

My name is Kristen Best, like the best.
And what do you do?
I'm an actress and a television host.
So tell me a little bit more about that - when you got started and why you do this?
I've been acting for about four years now, and I've been doing TV hosting for the same.
Before that, I was in fashion PR so my background is in the fashion industry
but I've always aspired to be an actress.
Finally, I just decided to go for it.
Pursue it.
Tell me a little bit how you go into it.
You were starting in some other industry and then what happened?
Well, I was working in fashion,
and fashion and entertainment are very much intertwined with each other.
So I met a couple of directors and I was asked to be in an episode of Entourage.
I did that and that's kind of how I caught the acting bug.
And from there, I stayed in fashion and kind of wanted to act,
but didn't really pursue it and...
Yeah, I just decided to go for it.
So what are some interesting projects you've been in?
Right now I am working on a TV show called the Comedians.
It's with Billy Crystal and Josh Gad.
And I play their receptionist.
It's kind of a behind the scene look at a sketch comedy show that they are making.
So it shot kind of like reality TV style and it's very fun, very funny.
It's coming out in March on FX.
And I just did-- well it's coming out in January,
the Wedding Ringer with Kaley Cuoco and Josh Gad again and Kevin Hart.
And I play one of Kaley's brides maids.
So we shot that last summer downtown at the Biltmore and it was so fun.
How is it working at people like Billy Crystal and all these other big names?
You know Billy Crystal has like blown me away.
He is literally the nicest guy that I have ever met.
Like, I was just excited to be in his presence,
and he's gone above and beyond and is just so kind, and authentic, and genuine.
I've met a lot of actors and he's by far the kindest man I've met.
Wow.
So, what's your plans for the future?
What do you see yourself doing?
I don't even know what I'm going to do this weekend.
No, the future-- I mean, I want to act.
I mean, I'd love to star in my own television show.
I actually have a script that I'm working on right now called Converting Kristen.
And it's kind of my quest for love, looking for love in all the wrong places,
and I decide to convert to Judaism to find a man.
So hopefully that picks up and we can make it into a series.
We're shooting the pilot, hopefully, in January or February.
And, yeah, just going ahead, and auditioning and putting myself out there,
and waiting for the next big thing.
So are you from this area originally?
I am, born and raised in Redondo beach.
California girl.
What do you recommend for people who are interested in this kind of work?
To come out here?
Is this the place to be?
Yeah, this is definitely the place to be for TV.
New York is more for theater.
But most production companies are in LA.
And come out here-- you know, I started doing background work,
and that's how I got my feet wet, and anybody could do that.
You don't even have to have any experience.
So I would recommend doing that and see if you really like it,
because it's not as glamorous as it looks, it's long, long hours and lots of down time,
but it's fun.
It takes a certain person, though.
Thick skin.
Well, congratulations on all the work you've done in the past.
Thank you.
Hope to see more from you in the future.
Congratulations to you.
Thank you.
I hope to see you in the future.
All right.

Yes, my name is Jose Polanco, and I actually work in production,
and I do also acting on the side.
I've been doing this for about two years.
I do a lot of production assistant work.
I worked on many reality TV shows and I've also acted on different TV shows
- mostly doing background work but I have gotten some featured roles.
What made you want to get into this industry?
I love it.
I'm actually pretty much an entertainer.
I always liked things that had to do with photography, and music, and lighting,
and this is just perfect.
It's like I've also enjoyed being in front of it.
I also enjoy being behind it.
And just the whole genre,
it's just a wonderful art form that you can display in moving pictures.
So what were you doing before this?
And how long have you lived in LA?
Before this, I was just doing little side jobs here and there.
I actually was doing delivery work.
I also did some restaurant work - mostly fast food.
I'm originally from El Salvador and I've been here for about 30 years already.
But in Los Angeles, I've been here all my life.
It's pretty much I'm a native Angeleno.
Is LA basically the place to be for this kind of stuff?
Yes, it is.
No matter what, it is.
This is where all the work is going to be here in LA.
This is where you make it happen.
So what kind of any interesting stories that you experienced doing this kind of work?
Yeah.
Doing a lot of TV work actually.
You get to notice how things work behind the scene.
You would think that a show that's for an hour takes a couple of minutes to shoot.
For one scene, you will think it's like 
maybe you see it on TV, it's like a one minute scene.
It actually takes about two to three hours just to shoot,
and the things you do on TV just for special effects is incredible.
I actually got to work on Inception with Leonardo Dicaprio.
And my scene was where he's having the dream sequence
where the train crashes into all those cars.
And we shot that actually on a real street with a real intersection in downtown Los Angeles.
It wasn't a real train.
It was just an 18-wheel truck and it was the haul of a train that we just mash into all these cars.
And it looked fantastic.
What was your job on that role?
I was actually one of the backgrounds.
I was actually one of the people that you saw walking on the street.
Remember, it was a rainy day and for us, it was just like a sunny day like right now.
And we were just walking around like nothing's happening like another sunny day,
even though I was soaking wet.
They drenched us.
That water was so cold.
So just imagine - we were trying to walk like it was a normal thing,
and here I am just soaked in water, cold, thinking it's a nice sunny day.
Awesome.
Well, congratulations for all the work that you've done then.
Thank you.
And good luck.
Thank you.

My name is Jerry Darko.
I work for a company called Raymond James, it's a technology investment bank.
We help companies raise capital, do M&A, and go public in the United states.
So far, what kind of companies have you worked with?
We work with all sorts of companies, anything that touches technology.
Everything from internet and digital media to software, to semi conductors, or systems,
and hardware as well.
Are you working globally or mainly domestically in the US?
Typically we help companies access pockets of capital in the United States,
but we work globally with firm.
We're often selling foreign companies to US entities,
or selling US entities to foreign companies,
or helping foreign entities access the US capital,
or go public in the United States.
About yourself, how did you get involved in this?
I've been involved in it for a while now.
I started on the investing side.
I started putting money to work in technology companies
and then decided that I wanted to help these companies access capital as well.
That's sort of the transition for me.
Do you have any specific success stories after working with one company
and seeing, wow, they've improved with what they've done?
Yeah, I have a bunch.
A lot of the companies that we work with are actually very successful.
The most recent transaction I did actually was
for a company that was doing about ten million in revenue when we started, when we engaged.
And we worked with them over a period of 15, 16 months,
and they were on a run rate to hit $110 million that year.
High growth, very interesting companies, we end up selling them for close to $400 million.
This is over maybe a three-year time span.
Everybody made a lot of money and was very happy.
Where are you based and how do you meet companies, traditionally?
You go to event or what do you do?
That's a good question.
The company is based in St.
Petersburg, Florida.
It's the largest investment bank not based in New York or London.
But I'm based in San Francisco, close to Silicon Valley where a lot of the tech companies are.
A lot of where the capital is.
Now, how we technically meet companies, a lot of it
- to be honest with you - is inbound or people put on our radars.
So we get calls and say, "This is an interesting company.
They might be looking to raise capital," and we develop relationships from that time.
We try not to be transaction-oriented.
When we meet a company, we try to help them
and help them over a number of years to make sure that they are growing and we're aligned with them.
And when it's time for them to raise capital and it's time for them to go public
- when they want to do something
- they think of us, and know that we're helpful and can get their needs done.
What do you look for when you look to partner with a company?
Is there any prerequisites that you're specifically looking for?
Not really.
As you can probably appreciate, the technology landscape moves pretty fast.
Like I said, you talk to a $10 million company
and then you turn around and they're a $100 million company.
Or you work with a pre-revenue company and they happen to be Instagram,
or you work with a 40-50 person company and it happens to be WhatsApp.
So the business model is really to look at companies that are adding value,
companies that are doing interesting things.
We talk to a lot of the large tech companies
- the Apples, the Googles, the IBMs, the Microsofts, Oracle, Amazon
- so we know what they're interested in, what they're looking at, what they think is exciting.
Anybody that's doing anything interesting, we're willing to talk to.
All right.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I appreciate your time.

Yes.
My name is Jack Overman.
I'm with KeyedIn Solutions here out of New Port Beach, California.
KeyedIn Solutions.
How do you spell that?
It's kind of like LinkedIn, but with a K.
So it's K-E-Y-E-D-I-N.
Okay.
And tell me what you do exactly there?
I am a territory manager for one of our software applications that we have.
So I sell across the US market, and it's a very niche product,
so I'm able to effectively cover all of North America.
Okay.
So, tell me a little bit about the service you provide?
From a broad scope, KeyedIn is a provider of cloud base, enterprise level, business management tools.
So we cover everything from project and program management.
We have a large focus in manufacturing from ERP type of systems,
similar to what you would have seen in a legacy environment with large, clunky, big systems.
We're bringing those into the 21st Century.
And we also own our own development platform
that allows us to be a lot more flexible with the way that we deploy the system
and how we price it as well.
Okay.
Can you give me any examples of some companies who have used your service
and what they've used it for?
Yeah.
So, on the platform side, it's a little bit abstract in terms of how we sell it.
It can be used for a lot of different things since you're effectively creating a business case 
or you're coming up with a business case and then we create,
or you create an application around that.
So a company, one of our first clients, had a few thousand employees
and they were managing all of their devices in a spreadsheet.
So the serial numbers on all those, which employees have it,
when they're up for upgrades, what locations they're at.
We were able to create an application around that
so they never had to update or email back and forth, any sort of spreadsheets.
They could have the actual employees put their information in when it needed to be serviced,
if there was an issue, send tickets to the IT department, things like that.
Do you have any main competitors?
How do you compete with them?
What do you offer that they can't do?
In that specific space, there's a few competitors.
But, in the space there's a lot of different emphasises.
There's business process management, application development, basic just automation.
There's products like Lamppost or OutSystems, that would effectively create an application.
But what we've been able to do, is create these applications without writing any code.
So we bring the application development
from that developer level who's writing the hard code,
and bring that development up to the business analyst level,
the person that understands the issues.
And that way we can cut down on miscommunications,
and also on timing from conception to go-live of an internal application.
So who is your target audience?
Target audience for our configure platform is definitely going to be the fortune 1, 2000s of the world.
We're going after, we re strategically partnering with larger professional services firms,
consulting companies that have relationships with larger multi-national companies,
that may have needs in certain departments, or have holes in existing applications.
So we would be able to go in and patch some of those holes and link into their systems.
So definitely, larger companies that have more complex needs
that may not have a solution or have never been given the option
to automate some of the processes that they currently have.
So are you mainly domestic right now, or are you expanding globally?
Well, we are a global company, so we have five main offices
- three here domestic in the US, one in Ireland, one in the UK, one in Sweden,
and then a number of other employees that work remote.
So we have a user base across Europe.
We're breaking into the...
not Asian markets yet, but into the AMEA and South American regions.
But right now, we're really focused on developing this product as best as it can be,
and then getting that into the hand of some larger companies.
But yes, across all of our products, we have customers across the globe.
Great.
So, tell me a little bit about yourself.
How did you get involved in this, and what did you study in school?
So, I was a communications major that ended up minoring in business later on,
once I realized that it might be good to know a little bit about business.
So, I had just graduated from school,
and was actually working in a restaurant
and waited on our Chairman and CEO who is a husband and wife who run our business.
And they kind of plucked me out of obscurity,
thought I might be good in the company,
and pretty much haven't looked back since then.
I've been with the company for a little over two years now,
and I've worked in everything from business development, sales,
channel partner development, and kind of whatever I can get my hands on,
I have tried to be involved in.
Great.
Where do you see your company going?
What kind of milestones do you have in the future?
We're going to conquer the world.
We want to be one of the premier cloud software providers here in the US
and ultimately across all the major markets.
So right now obviously the focus is in Western Europe and North America,
but we are putting a strong focus on developing our business internationally.
I think with our technology, especially the platform that we have
and being able to build our own products on our own platform
and having the flexibility to allow our customers to upgrade or to customize
and still give us the capability to upgrade the back end of the system,
will be a game changer for us.
So that's really what we are going to be leveraging here over the next few years
and hopefully we'll be double the size,
or double the revenue we'll say, in the next few years.
Well, how big is your company?
Right now, as I mentioned, we have five offices and just under a hundred employees,
so across each office there's-- it's fairly evenly spread out,
and then as I mentioned some other people working in other strategic areas, kind of from home offices.
Can you tell me a little bit about the company culture?
Company culture is great.
I mean we're such a fast growing company
with really aggressive goals going after some big names,that it's 
every day that you come in the office,
you never know what the next objective is going to be
because we're able to move quickly
and we have technology that is essentially game changing.
That we can pivot quickly but we also stick pretty true to the focus of our core products,
whether that's project management or manufacturing or application development.
I guess the best answer to your question is,
we have the ability to be given at all levels within the company a lot of responsibility
and a lot of growth potential.
So that's the most exciting part about the company.
Great, well, good luck.
All right.
And thanks a lot.
Thank you.
All right.

Yes, hi.
This is Henry Parmar.
I'm the owner of the Yogen Fruz.
This is the biggest franchise in the yogurt industry.
We have 1,900 location in 49 countries.
And the industry has a great product.
So explain your product - why is it different from others?
One, because it's a probiotic- it's good for your health.
And the second thing it's gluten free.
Also, it's kosher.
And you know we never use water or powder in our products.
All is made out from the yogurt.
So it's all fully natural. / All natural.
So, what kind of people come in here? Like people of all ages?
All ages, of course.
The whole reason was to bring all age here,
because it's good for your body, you know.
And as you see, our logo always says,
"Good for your brain,good for your body."
yummy for your tummy.
So those are the benefit of our yogurt.
So have you had any celebrity customers come in here before?
Yes, lot of celebrity comes to our store, you know.
Kardashians' been here,
Bobby Brown has been here,
William Shatner has been here, you know.
There's a list of celebrity usually come.
So tell me - what's the most popular thing you get?
What do you like?
I personally like all the flavor.
But since we do the flavors every time,
so we're going to make sure I usually go the smooth,
plain one, which is my best favorite of the favorite we call Greek Froyo.
You know the Greek yogurt? That's the best of myself,
and it's the best of the seller.
So what's the most popular that other customers like?
Well usually people like chocolate and vanilla
because that's not seasonal.
Can be run throughout the year,
so chocolate, vanilla is the best of the best in the entire year.
Great.
So what made you choose this business,
opposed to anything else? / Well, couple thing.
One, it's good because it's toward health.
And it fits on my budget
because my budgets were not that great to start a huge business,
so I picked on my budget.
Well, good luck in the future,
and perhaps I'm out of this business. / Thank you for guys
Thanks / Thank you very much.

I'm Danny Shaw.
I'm the Global Vice President for Hibox Systems,
probably one of the cooler companies based in Finland.
We do all of our development work in Turku and Vaasa.
We have business development in Vienna, Austria.
We develop IPTV middleware and OTT middleware for both Telkom providers, and hotels.
What's your role exactly?
I lead their business development globally.
I've been responsible for taking us into the US, into South America,
into other places around Europe, besides Scandinavia.
Okay.
Tell me a little bit about your service?
We have a service to hotels where they can - in a cloud-based service
- where they can actually receive all of their TVs solutions entertainment information
from the TV, using our system.
For Telkom providers, we have the regular residential TV,
where you turn your TV on, and you get a screen.
We're the middleware behind that.
Do you have any competitors, and if you do, what are your advantages?
We do have some competitors, and they're very good competitors.
This is a mature industry that provides really good technology to TVs.
Our difference is we're like the next generation where people can get information.
They can pair their devices to the TV.
They can start programs on their devices,
and stop them and start them on another device,
and then eventually watch it on the TV.
They can do it anywhere, anytime on any device, it's really the thing.
Can you give me a practical example of how someone might use your device?
Yeah.
You're on the bus on the way home from work, and you want to watch a sporting event.
You start watching it on your smartphone,
then you get home and your daughter's watching a program on the TV
so you go to your PC, pick up right where you left off,
and can watch the program on your PC.
When she leaves the TV, you can now go over and stop it, go over to your TV,
watch the rest of the sporting event on your TV.
So where are you located around the world?
We've saturated the Finnish and Swedish markets.
We're in Greece, we're in Spain, we're in Netherlands,
and now we're in South America: Costa Rica, Peru, Brazil and soon in Belize.
We're going to start a trial in South Africa very soon.
Great.
Tell me about your company.
How many employees do have, what offices do you have?
Our offices are located in Turku and Vaasa, Finland and Vienna, Austria.
We have about 24 developers.
Now we're adding - because of our success in South America
- we're adding product managers and program managers.
Is there any way to describe your company culture?
We have a very flatline organizational hierarchy,
which allows us to be as creative as we want to be.
If we have an idea you can talk about it
and within a week we've already developed it and put it into our middleware.
So it's a very creative group.
We have one thing we do as a company:
once or twice a year we have off-site meetings
just so the creativity of our developers can go,
and we have competitions amongst ourselves to see who can create the coolest new thing.
All right.
So who's your target audience?
Our target audience is telecommunications providers or hoteliers, hospitality, like hotel chains.
All right, well good luck.
Hey thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.

My name is Arisa and I own this store called Clumsy Cat
and we are on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles.
I started this store two years ago
and we have a lot of unique stuff like one-of-a-kind to original brands.
We have a local brand from Los Angeles, UK, Switzerland, and Japan.
We have a lot of different stuff from other countries too.
What made you want to open the store?
I have worked in some big store in Japan and I always come here.
And I met a lot of people.
I actually had a little booth in Melrose flea market
and I always dream about having a store and dream come true.
Do you specialize in men's clothing, women's clothing, or both?
Women's, but I have some men's too.
Do you have any interesting stories of people who came inside your store?
Yeah.
I actually have a lot of artists come into the store,
and also stylists - Lil Wayne's stylist, G-Dragon, and Kiko Mizuhara
- a lot of famous people in here.
Wow.
Have you ever been shown on TV in other countries or in America?
No.
How long have you been in Los Angeles?
For ten years.
Ten years, okay.
Very nice.
I saw a lot of your clothes and it was really cool.
Do you have any concept or is it just what you like?
How do you choose?
Because I'm Japanese and I've been living here for a long time,
I see what American people like and what I like, so it's kind of a mix - Japan and America.
Clothing fusion?
Yeah.
Do you do any promoting of your store?
Yeah, I do a lot of social networking like Instagram and Facebook, Twitter.
And I also have a website, if you're interested you can visit shop.clumsy-cat.com
What's the website one more time?
shop.clumsy-cat.com.
Okay, I look forward to looking at it.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Thank you so much.

My name Matt Engstrom, and
I work for DreamWorks as a supervising director, and I make cartoons.
So, how did you get into this?
I started by.. I've always liked to draw, and when I got out of high school
I pursued a college to learn how to animate, or to be trained in drawing for cartoons.
And so, as I pursued the college,
I learned what I needed to do for the industry and how to get in.
And eventually was able to, after about five years of trying, got a job at a studio.
Now, what exactly do you do on a day-to-day basis?
I read scripts, and my job is to tell the story best, the best possible way to tell it visually.
So I'll read the words and then decide what's the funniest way to tell something 
or show something,
or the best way to-- best camera angles to use,
how to make a joke funny, what the character should be doing, saying, that type of thing.
So day-to-day basis, I'm drawing all day.
And I'm drawing and I'm supervising a team of artists as well.
What are some of the projects you've been on that are well known or...?
I've worked on King of the Hill for Fox.
I worked on Billy and Mandy for Cartoon Network.
I worked on The Cleveland Show for Fox.
I've also worked on the Penguins of Madagascar for Nickelodeon.
And other ones I just can't think about right now.
Are you working on anything currently?
Yes. I'm working at DreamWorks on a show called All Hail King Julien,
which will come out in December.
So, when you first got started on King of the Hill, is that when you 
your first big major job?
Yes.
Tell me about that. What was that like?
I started as an animator on that show,
where I would just make the characters move.
I d get a scene, and within the scene a person'd walk across the screen,
or throw a football, or whatever it was.
And so I would draw the character, and animate them,
and move them from scene to scene.
My experience there is, I was on the show for about ten years.
I was able to start as an animator and work my way up to a director,
which is basically overseeing all aspects of the episode,
so I was able to do that as well.
What kind of success did you-- did King of the Hill receive?
It was on, the show, for about 15 years which is, for a TV show, is very rare.
It won several awards. It won an Emmy award and I think that's about it,
but it was a pretty successful show.
What's your favourite thing about what you do?
Making people laugh.
There's nothing better than watching an episode
that you've worked on and a joke that you came up with
and having people watch and laugh at it.
It's fun.
How much input do you have on some of the scripts?
There will be a script, but it basically gets you from point A to point B.
So my job is solely to improve upon it to tell the story, service the story,
but also to make it funny,
so that my entire day is how can I tell this funnier.
What's a funnier way I can say this or do this or whatever.
If it's funny and it makes people laugh, I have tons of input.
As long as it is a good idea and will make the story better,
then it-- there's a lot of creative freedom in the show.
All right. Anything that you would want to do in the future or
is there something that [inaudible- I can t tell either (Jennifer)]?
I would love to create my own show.
That would be great. And come up with an idea and sell it to a studio and run with it that way.
Me and some friends have been working on some ideas
and have been trying to do that for years,
but it's not easy, so we are still trying to do it.
But I would love to that. That would be great.
And where are you based?
Out of Glendale right now.
And where is Glendale?
Glendale, California. It's just outside of Los Angeles.
So you work in Hollywood, you're familiar with the area and everything?.
Yes.
All right, well thanks a lot and good luck.
Yeah, thank you.

Can you introduce your company?
Sure. I work for Goldbely, we are a marketplace.
We find the best food in the United States and ship it to your door.
So we go around to all the different states
we get cheesecake from New York, Chicago deep-dish pizza straight from Chicago
we get lobster rolls* from Maine and send it to you wherever you are.
How did you find out about that company first?
Sure. When I was looking for my next job
I looked on AngelList* and found a really cool startup that was still growing and decided to join.
And that was Goldbely.
Why is your service so different from other services?
Sure. There s lots of startups that sell food and get you food.
You can order, like, delivery from local places or you can order, you know, from Amazon.com or something like that.
Big brand food.
But there s really nothing that takes the best food locally and delivers it to you wherever you are
and that s what we do.
We find the best merchants, no matter where they are
and take those local places and deliver their best products to you.
What is the value of your position for both your customers and your clients?
Sure, so. For our clients, I d say about half of our clients are smaller places that are really well-known locally
but don t have much of a national reach.
And so our merchants get more distribution through our channel.
We show off their best stuff, people like how it looks and order it.
And for our customers, we offer a lot.
If you moved and you want your best hometown food, there s a good chance we have it.
If you need to send a gift to someone
you don t know what to get them, and you don t wanna send them a generic gift basket
well, you can send them your favorite things from your hometown.
I think that s about it.
Can you tell us why your founders came up with this idea to start this startup?
Like why they decided on this item?
Sure. Yeah. Our CEO spent the last 10 years working in food.
He started an online food magazine called Eats.com more than 10 years ago
and then took over as CEO for Delivery.com, which was local food delivery.
He saw a hole in the marketplace
where, yes, you can get local food, but you can t get the best food.
Just because it s close doesn t mean it s good.
Can you talk about your founders and your team members?
What kind of roles they have and how you guys balance each other?
Sure. So, our core team right now is the 4 founders.
The CEO, who does most of the business development and grabbing new merchants
as well as, like, outreach, in that sense.
Our designer and photographer, who takes care of all of our branding, all of our messaging.
Two of our co-founders are developers, one front-end, one back-end.
I m the first employee, also a developer
and we have a couple people working in customer service and business development.
I think it brings a pretty good balance.
We ve got the technical side, to make sure everything comes together
and we don t need to do too much of the work ourselves
and we ve got great business people making the connections to the merchants that we need.
I think in startups, communication is really really important.
How do you guys communicate well or efficiently?
I think in startups, communication is really really important.
How do you guys communicate well or efficiently?
Yeah, so most of us are in San Francisco
but we do have a few people working remotely
and we do, you know, daily meetings giving updates on where we re at.
We make sure that the most important information gets across to all team members
while keeping the details to their respective teams.
When you guys face a challenge, how do you guys overcome this challenge?
Sure. We ve got a lot of smart people working for the company.
Everyone is really into food, our CEO has tons of experience in it
and usually through discussion over lunch or something like that
we come up with some of our best ideas.
What s your marketing strategy?
Our marketing strategies? Let s see.
Right now we re rolling into the holiday season, which is really big for gift giving
so we re encouraging people to not only buy for themselves
but to give to someone else.
For example, we recently had a promotion where if you bought a set set of cookies
you could also send it to your friend for free.
We also do a lot of fun stuff like that.
Do you guys have initial traction right now?
Yeah. Yeah.
Can you talk about the feedback of the customers?
Yeah. Yeah.
Can you talk about the feedback of the customers?
Sure. Our clients love us a lot.
We get a lot of repeat business.
A lot of them hear from their friends, but we also
Our CEO is really telegenic, so he gets on, like,  Bloomberg TV 
and  Fox and Friends  and some of these big, national TV programs
and we see a lot of new customers come in through there.
How do you do the sales?
Sure. Which side?
Both sides.
Ok, so at first, our CEO, and the rest of the founders
but mostly our CEO went out to merchants to find like the best 10, the best 50 places in the US.
Like, iconic places that everyone locally knows about.
But after we started to get initial traction, a lot of these places started reaching out to us.
So it took a little bit of time to build the brand up
but now that people know Goldbely as the place to go for the best food in the country
people want their shops there.
For the customer side, our initial traction came through a lot of, sort of, what s called  growth hacking  techniques.
So just running promotions all the time, doing the things that don t scale really well.
We didn t run giant ads, but you know, we ran nice promotions, promoted it through Twitter.
I thought one of our most clever ones was that
on 3/14, pi, Pi Day, we had, you could buy a pie and send a pie to your friend for $3.14.
Not only does that get people really excited
but it brings in a whole new customer base of people who otherwise wouldn t have known about us.
Do you guys have something, unique corporate culture that you guys have?
Aside from other startups?
I d say the biggest one is we re really into food, so we eat well.
I d say the biggest differentiator is like
I mean we get these merchants that really wanna be on the site, so they send us a package of all their best stuff.
And like, what other startup do you have people sending you food all the time?
So what is your monetization strategy?
It s pretty simple.
We sell a product and we make a good margin on it. So 
Can you talk about the technical background?
Sure. What side?
Like your service, the website, right?
Like the technologies used and stuff like that? Like real technical?
Ok, well, our site is built on Ruby on Rails in the back-end and Postgres is our database, and we work with, like 
We re starting to work with front-end frameworks like Ember.js.
And, yeah. We host on Heroku.
Can you explain about the financial status, like have you guys invested?
Can you say that again?
Can you talk about the financial status?
Like have you guys invested?
Oh, so, the 4 founders went through Y Combinator, which is the biggest company accelerator in the US.
They went through it in, Goldbely went through Y Combinator in this last winter batch, so winter 2013.
That s the initial investment and we ve been fine since then.
What s your service s milestones and future plans?
Our future plans?
Right now, we re trying to, like, really get across the message that
Goldbely is the place you wanna go to send gifts to family, friends, and clients.
So we re really making a push right now for a big holiday season.
Why did you join this startup? There s a lot of other startups.
Yeah, I mean. I had 
There s a lot of companies that want developers, so it wasn t hard for me to find a great job
and I chose Goldbely because I felt like being an early employee at a fast-growing startup would be the most fun.
I was really impressed by all 4 founders and how they were really competent in what they do.
So our CEO with his 10 years of experience in the food industry, our designer who, like 
I mean, just take a look at the website and you ll see how great everything looks.
And then 2 experienced developers who I felt like I could work well with and learn a lot from.
Why are you in startups instead of just getting a regular job?
Yeah. I joined a startup because I really wanted a chance to work not only developing a product
but also have a say in the direction and where we re going.
At Goldbely, I get a chance to have my opinion in a lot of decisions we make
and that s way more fun than getting assigned tasks and doing them.
Who s your favorite entrepreneur?
Who s my favorite entrepreneur?
I d say  It s hard to beat Elon Musk, just because he really takes a risk when he does something.
But he also follows through to the end.
So, like, SpaceX, Tesla, these are big challenges and he s, like, fearless about them
and I think that s pretty cool.

What is your monetization strategy?
So this is a business to business sales problem, so...
If you take the organizations and the conferences, like TechCrunch, for example
they want to offer their speakers completely frictionless integration
and the way the currently do it is having to email their slides to
to a PC that is connected to the projector and then turn up and use a clicker device.
And that seems...
That seems really awful because you have this hard deadline for when you have to have your slides in by.
So these huge conferences could purchase our software
and then allow people to turn up and control their presentations on their smartphone or their tablet
which most people carry with them anyway.
So we will be selling software as a service on a monthly subscription base to businesses.
Can you explain about the technical background of your product?
How do you develop this product in terms of technology?
So we built this as a web-based solution, so we ve been using certain web-based languages like JavaScript.
We've also got some Python in there.
Technologies that the team were already comfortable with.
And yeah, we've got that as our our main technology sort of core.
And yeah, I mean, we re building our own sort of open infrastructure.
We re using, you know, cool technologies like Amazon Web Services.
Stuff that the team already knows well, so it's allowing us to develop much faster.
What's your plan on marketing? How do you promote your service?
So we re actually going to go for quite a people-intensive strategy, so we'll have a sales team.
And I will initially be leading that sales team
so I m going to leave the technical focus and move into the business focus as the business lead of the company.
And so I ll be leading the sales effort with Rob leading sales in the United States.
I mean, we re a distributed team.
We ve got our engineering in the UK and our marketing in New York
So we ve got the ability to provide support on sales in two continents at the same time.
and yeah, I mean, a sales team is probably the ideal solution for us
because we want to be able to go in and demo our product
and Google AdWords* isn t the sort of thing that will get us through the customer's door, you know.
We need one foot in the door to be able to sell this thing.
Can you explain the financial side?
Did you get the investment and what you plan to...?
Can you explain the financial side?
Did you get the investment and what you plan to...?
So we... Yeah, we are going to look for investment probably towards the end of the year.
right now, our costs are quite low because we re all developing this in our evenings and weekends, you know.
We re bootstrapping this off our main jobs.
But towards the end of the year, when we release our full solution out of beta test, we ll want to be able to support it.
We ll want to be able to build the hardware devices and manufacture them.
So, we ll probably look at funding towards the end of this year somewhere in the, probably in the region of 50 to 100,000 dollars.
Can you tell the difference between the startup people in England or startup people in San Francisco?
There s no difference whatsoever.
The startup community worldwide is this, I really believe it doesn't matter where you go.
Everyone has the same culture where you work really hard because you believe in it
and you you re doing summat* you really enjoy, and it's the technologies that you want to do
and you re working with people you really want to work with.
So you work long hours but not because you re forced to.
You do it because you want to.
So I think the cultures across the world, for the startup community, are the same.
What is the biggest challenge you think you will face in terms of doing your business....?
Oh, God! 
...Will it be sales, will it be technology, will it...?
Oh, God! 
...Will it be sales, will it be technology, will it...?
I believe it will be sales.  Because it's so people intensive.
We've got to find the right sales team.
The team that are going to actually be able to perform and sell products.
And putting together a sales team, I think is going to be much harder than putting together an engineering team.
Although I might be wrong, I might be proven wrong.
We re still to do both, so we'll see.
Do you have your advisers for your business?
Yeah, we ve got some really, really good advisers.
How are they helping?
Yeah, we ve got some really, really good advisers.
Yeah, so we've got a guy called Phillip our mentor from AngelHack, which, he s at London Google.
He's incredible, you know, he s come up with some really good ideas
from marketing, and business, and entering different verticals in the market.
But we've also had some business advisers.
My girlfriend's father is an incredible businessman and he s...
He looks over our business plan, gives us advice, and...
He also believes in our product, you know, because he s felt our pain, he s felt the pain point.
So because he believes in the product, he s really enthusiastic when it comes to reviewing the business plan, which is great.
Rob has got some fantastic contacts through his university in America
that have also looked over the business plan and give us advice and spent hours talking to us on the phone.
So, the mentors that we have understand our problem, feel our pain, so they re willing to give us their time.
How do you keep yourself running, you know, from being exhausted from startup?
Because it is very hard.
Yeah. It is. No, it really is.
I mean, I think it's similar to when you go out for a jog
and the point when you feel really weak and you want to give in
but you think, "No, I m going to push myself for another block, or two blocks, or three blocks."
And at the end of that, you keep going and you push yourself a little bit further.
And by the time you get back, you feel so exhilarated that you- so tired and you re in so much pain
but you feel so good about yourself because you ve achieved something.
You ve reached a milestone.
and that's what it's like. It s tiring, you know
and at times, you can't concentrate because you re so tired
but you force yourself to deliver that next milestone.
And when you get there, it feels amazing.
So I motivate myself by knowing how good it's going to feel when I arrive.
Why are you doing startup?
Why didn't you get a job at the, you know, official company?
Why are you doing startups?
I want to make my own rules. I want to make my own culture.
And I want to work, I want to build a team and work with the people I enjoy working with.
So I want to put together an amazing technical team
who will go off on a tangent and go
"Oh my God, this is cool technology and we re going to integrate it into our product and it's going to be amazing."
And I want to have the salesman who comes up with the innovative new way of marketing this product
to the huge companies and finding ways to get it through their door.
So I want to make the rules and build that culture.
And in large companies, or in other people's companies, you don't have that freedom.
And I'd love to, you know, working with my friend John, together we know what culture we enjoy.
So we can ingrain that into our company and we can use that culture to help deliver our product.
You know, we can take our sense of humor and our enjoyment of sort of teasing each other
and we can use that as our sort of motivation for turning up in the office and staying late, you know?
We want to be around each other.
So that s how we ll deliver our product.
How important is it to have the right co-founders?
I think it's the key.
I think anybody could hire a team and build any piece of technology.
You know, you could go out there and recruit a load of software engineers, pay them a load of money, and build any product.
But having the right co-founders is kind of like having a brother who s also your best friend.
Because you spend all your time together and you ve got to...
You ve got to be able to spend all your time together
and you've got to be able to argue and then put the argument behind you
because no two co-founders will ever not get tired and snap at each other.
But you've just got to realize, you know,  He's tired. Get over it. 
And then the next minute, you re laughing and joking again.
So the right co-founder is probably the most important thing, more than anything else in the world.
Their personality and their skill set is what eventually will deliver your product or bring on investment, or put together a team.
You've got to have that same sort of personality, that same want to build a culture
and push yourself harder and further than the normal person who wants a normal job will.
This will be a last question.
Who is your favorite entrepreneur in the startup community?
God! Recently, I ve been talking a lot about Elon Musk.
And the reason I talk a lot about Elon Musk is because he decides on something that's cool and then he just does it, you know?
And it helps that he s got a lot of money behind him.
It helps that he has got billions of pounds behind him and he could get investment in an instant.
But, you know, like, he goes, "Oh, I m going to make electric cars." So he goes away and makes electric cars.
You know, he says, "Oh, I m going to build a hyperloop train from San Fran** to Los Angeles."
"I m going to build space rockets."
So he just takes this cool technology and turns it into a business.
And he's got the Midas touch. Whatever he touches turns to gold
so yeah, between him and Richard Branson are the two people that I look at and say
"That's the sort of- the sort of person, the sort of personality that I'd like to be seen as in many years  time."

So can you introduce your service?
Sure. So our service is Kronicle.
Basically, it s a platform that breaks down these complicated tasks into digestible chunks.
What we realized was there really was nothing out there for you to learn on the fly.
Even with video, it was super annoying that you had to scrub back.
So what we do is we combine looping video
we combine text, we combine images into this new, easy to digest format.
Cool.
Was that good? Alright.
Can you tell us why you came up with this idea?
Well, I watch entirely too many cooking shows and I really wanted to learn how to cook.
And what I realized was recipes are actually really hard to follow
a small block of text while keeping track of time.
It was difficult, so I thought there had to be something better.
There wasn t, so I made something better.
What s your favorite cooking show?
Well, it s not really a cooking show, but I love Anthony Bourdain s  No Reservations. 
It s just an awesome show.
Why s your service so different from other services?
Well, everything else out there is
It s still relying on, like, long videos or big blocks of text
and nothing s really sort of creating a hybrid yet
to really be able to play back on mobile the way that mobile could be used.
What is your core competency?
Me? I am... Is that like what I do?
Or like what I m best at? Or what our company s good at?
Both.
Both of those? Oh, I think we re just better at design, you know?
We just try to really solve the problem for the user the best we can and we don t quit until it s good.
I mean, the users, the people who are going to download it, they don t care about us.
Like, they might know,  Oh, he made that, 
but all they care about is if it works well and behaves the way they think it should behave.
How did you come up with your team?
Me and Scott and Matt, we all worked together at an agency for about 2 and a half years
and we just became fast friends, you know?
We all kind of like the same stuff, we re all big dorks, we all care about what we do
probably more than we should. And yeah, it just kind of all came together.
How important is it to have the right programmers to do the business?
I think it s extremely important because it s hard enough by yourself and you get into some stressful situations.
There s some big decisions.
And as long as you guys align on what you think, I mean, as long as you have the same goals, it s a lot easier
but you need to find someone with the same goals and you need to find someone that balances you out.
You know, two of the same people who are indecisive can just burn through so much money
so it s good to find someone that can keep you in check, too.
How do you cooperate with your partner?
I mean, the thing you have, the thing he has, how does it balance each other out?
He s a really good developer and a really smart guy
so it s basically, we *sort of come up with the idea together and I go away for awhile and
you know, do some designs and some interface stuff and we look at it.
And then he tells me we can t do it and then I tell him,  We can do it. It ll take some time but we can do it. 
And then we fight some more, and then eventually, after all that fighting
we get something really good at the end of the day. Yeah.
How do you make your corporate culture?
Well, we re still very small, so we don t necessarily have a corporate culture
but I only want people who want to make really good stuff, and...
 Change the world  is a bit high, heavy
but, you know, actually have a good effect on people s lives.
Not people who just want to trade their, you know, hours for money.
What is your vision in your company and milestones?
I mean, we see this company going places where if anyone wants to learn something
you know, on the fly, quickly, that they re going to look for it through our app.
And  our biggest milestone right now is launching our iPhone version as well as our web presence.
What is the biggest challenge you think there will be in terms of doing your business?
Well, since our site doesn t rely totally, but it relies heavily on user-generated content
to create and foster a really great community who can produce really good content for our app.
That s going to be the biggest challenge, I think.
What s your plan on getting early traction? It s a very hard thing to do.
Yeah, well, hopefully we ll get some investment
and if we get enough of that, that will create a little buzz around it.
But we re going to outreach some key partners, some aspiring chefs, some people with audiences already
and have them take a look at the app and start using it
and then get their followers and audience onto our platform.
How can you overwhelm your competitors?
Just be better than them. It s hard to overwhelm them. You just have to be nimble, quick.
I think what we re planning on doing by building an API in the beginning is to have it live across multiple devices.
And once that starts getting traction across all these devices and it starts getting installed on them
unless the competition can keep up with that, we ll always be ahead of them.
Who would be your biggest competitor?
I d say, like, to be honest, YouTube is our biggest competitor
because people look up stuff, how to do it, on YouTube. You know?
YouTube and recipe sites like Epicurious. Both of those. Big competitors.
What is your monetization strategy?
We see 3 ways to get some money out of this thing.
One is to do targeted advertising since we ll know what people are doing.
If they re cooking a cake, we can recommend ingredients from certain brands to make that cake.
We re going to have a content marketplace
where these people who are passionate about what they do can make a little money about sharing it.
Basically, think of a yoga instructor who can t really get a yoga video out there
but she can make a Kronicle and have people subscribe to her channel.
The third way is corporate learning.
Imagine sort of mobilizing your whole sales force with the same information at the same time.
Can you explain about the background of your product?
Like how did you develop this product in terms of technology?
Yeah. Basically, it s an iOS app right now. We developed it over those 24 hours at the hackathon.
It s really, it s almost like a real-time editing platform
because you see the timeline, you have the looping videos, and it s a big undertaking.
How will you promote your service? What s your marketing strategies after launching on iPhone?
Well, luckily, we re going to rely heavily on social for organic growth because you can share if you ve done these
you can share if you ve made them, through Pinterest, Twitter, and Facebook.
And also our app in itself is a social network, so we ll try to get more users onto it.
Besides that, we re going to reach the key influencers in those fields, like cooking
and, you know, exercise and stuff like that, and get them to get their followers on our app.
What is the value competition for these key audiences that you re trying to reach?
I think they just want to learn better, faster, and that s what we provide.
Do you also have to do the sales? With the chefs?
We ll probably have to negotiate some deals, depending on how willing, or how much they like the product.
If they want to use it to get, you know, their fan base engaged and be able to share stuff with them
they might not even need a financial push, but yeah, we re definitely thinking about that.
Can you explain about the financial status? Like did you get the investment, or planning to do it?
We re raising seed money right now and we have a few meetings for that.  But yeah, still everything s TBD.
Who s your favorite entrepreneur?
Oh, entrepreneur.
And why?
I really like the Elon Musk* and the Tesla thing, it s just awesome.
But I think my favorite s Tina Roth Eisenberg,*** the Swiss Miss.****
She came here from Switzerland and started a design blog and a co-op working space
and just makes really cool products and is just super smart, super positive.
She s a really big influence. Positive.
So you re a designer, right?
I guess so. I m a creative director, technically
because I control the tone of everything across it, but at heart, yeah, I m a designer.
I m a really expensive designer.
What is your favorite application or product that you think their design is really nice?
As far as experience goes, Clear is just an awesome app.
Just a new way just to sort of handle content and sort lists and stuff.
It s really really cool. My favorite designed app?
I actually really loved Foursquare s new design. It was really intuitive, really nice stuff.
Why did you start apps?
Because it s really exciting and it s really fun to make something that you want to make.
I used to work for agencies, so we get paid to make stuff, but they always had creative control.
And for us, you know, just a few stakeholders to have that control and to make anything we want is really exciting.
What was the biggest challenge you faced so far while you were doing the startups?
I think it s just burnout, because a lot of people with a startup, you don t have that funding to begin with.
And you re doing it in the morning before you go to work, and you re doing it at night when you get home
you know, just for a few hours, and on weekends, too. It s really tough to put the effort in.
But, I mean, the worst thing that can ever happen is nothing, so you might as well try.

Can you introduce yourself?
Okay. Hi, my name is Marley. I work in the tech scene in New York City.
Can you introduce your service?
Sure. So, basically, I work with brands
and I understand their goals for the upcoming marketing quarter
and I reach out to startups and devise campaigns that work best for the goals of the brand.
Why is your business so different from others?
So currently, the market in digital advertising and marketing is focused on search, on display, and on social.
And so basically, these digital marketing companies are only focusing on tools that already exist.
So Google ads, display networks, and social media such as YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter.
And so the opportunity that my company has is that it allows for more digital innovation
and using untouched digital companies with the startups that allow for more innovation and engaging marketing practices.
What is your core competency?
Of the startup?
Of your business.
Okay. So, the business is really focused around knowing the startup scene very well.
A lot of brands and agencies don't have that inside knowledge of startups and what the trends are.
So the core competency of the company is the enterprise knowledge
of knowing trends, what's coming up, how products can be used
and introducing that into brands to help them with their marketing strategy.
What is the pain in your market?
So the pain in the market is that brands want to be more innovative and they really don't know how.
They know that they need to be doing unique things but they're not sure what the best way to go about it is.
So for example  The music industry, for example, knows that
there are new ways of sharing, distributing, and enhancing their music content
but what happens is they only really know about what is already happening or things that they've seen other people do.
And it's sort of just this waterfall effect of companies using technologies that aren't that innovative in actuality
because it's already been done before. So. That's the problem.
I would like to ask you about your team.
What kind of people are you working with and how they are balancing together?
So, currently, I'm starting it off as a consultancy, so for now it's just myself
but I'm working with a partnership with a company
that has a database that's more of a technical platform of startups that they're curating for marketing purposes.
So basically, I'm looking to provide the service and balance that off of the database and have that good
even exchange of information between the brands having access to a database
and then my services coming in and advising and following through with the campaigns.
What is your vision in your business and what is the milestone for it?
So  I guess the long term vision is to create a innovation agency of sorts.
So instead of being a social media agency or a full service digital agency
is working with these startup companies to do campaigns and execute on those.
So  Milestone would be, I guess, gaining enough clients in order to hire the next batch of people.
So ideally, I'm going to be consulting individually and...
I think this is one of your other questions, is the model, but I'm working based upon the lean startup method.
So I'm not looking for outside investment at this time. I'd like to build it organically.
And so when the business can support hiring then I would like to grow.
What is your monetization strategy?
So the monetization strategy is working with the brands as the clients.
So those are the clients that would be paying.
And there will be a base retainer fee for research services and working within their goals.
And then once a partnership is activated and the startup has their fee
there ll be a percentage cut from the... there ll be a percentage added out to the agency and also a percentage taken from the startup.
So the startup won't pay anything unless there's a partnership
and then the consulting services for the startup will be activated.
But it's only on a per case basis of execution.
What is your own strategy for doing the sales in terms of getting more clients?
So basically, I'm starting off with the pool of resources that I already currently have.
So my first activation is going to be with people I already know and we're doing a pilot program.
And so from that, I'll have a case study, and then I'm going to be reaching out through my network.
And really, it's a bit of word of mouth and gaining enough case studies to be able to go out and cold call once
with bigger brands once I've exhausted my personal resources.
Do you have your favorite startup community?
There are a lot of people who talk about it.
Yeah, actually I'm pretty inspired by this company called The Muse.
They help people know what companies are like on the inside and help inspire career choices
which I think is really good in today's day and age when people are really interested in choosing their own career.
What is the most important thing for you to succeed in your business?
Is it sales or content or getting clients?
I think the thing that will really be valuable is providing a service that they see as useful and building those relationships.
So, a lot of agency work is done through client relationships and also the work that you produce, and since this is sort of a new concept
I really have to be able to show the value of it and be able to do that in a way that
they're happy with that will lead to continued- continued use of my services and also word of mouth to others in the industry.
Some people feel differently about doing sales.
What kind of things would you recommend?
What kind of personalities or aspect do you need to have in order to do the sales?
Right. Well  I was never formally taught sales and I'm still working on, I guess, closing the loop myself.
But I see that I have this entrepreneurial spirit and what you really need to do is just not feel uncomfortable and just go and ask people.
And most of the time, people want to help and they're interested in hearing what you're doing.
So what I recommend is if you want to talk to someone reach out to them, email them, call them.
If you know they're going to be at a conference, go to the conference and get in front of them.
So really just don't be afraid, ask for what you want, and make sure you're providing value.
And if you are, then you're being very helpful.
Have you participated in a TechCrunch conference before?
No, this is my first time.
How do you like it?
Yeah, so I've done a few other hackathons but this is pretty much the biggest and most well-known hackathon there is
and I'm excited to be here and be associated with the conference, as well.
What are you working on right now?
What are you guys presenting tomorrow?
So we're using the style API* that's provided by PopSugar** and we're using Google Glass
actually, so it's gonna be pretty cool.
It's using Google Glass to take pictures, like street style.
And it's a tool for magazines to use so that they're able to do street style pictures
and then quickly be able to find the item that the person is wearing or similar items and
include a link for people to purchase those items.
Why are you guys working on it?
Have you felt the pain of this before?
Yes. So I have some experience from my advertising days working in the fashion media industry
and street style is a huge, huge aspect to any fashion publication.
And the way that it works now is people just write down what people are wearing.
They go up and ask,  Hi, can I take a picture? What are you wearing?  and they write it down and publish it later.
However, no one is really harnessing the fact that people who see that want to also purchase it.
So what we're doing is we're making it easy, as a tool
for those items that are on the person, to get it into the hands of the consumer.
Do you guys have to do the sales with the magazine people, or...?
Well, for TechCrunch, it's just demoing and building the product
and I guess seeing where it goes from there.
But, yeah, the app would be... The tool would be something that the magazines would be using.

Can you introduce yourself?
Yes.
My name is Robert Anderson.
I am the bid manager here at Lone Star Percussion.
Some of my other responsibilities, I ...
Everyone here does a bit of everything, but one of my other primary responsibilities is I'm one of the buyers.
I work with the manufacturers in ordering inventory or special orders and that sort of thing.
What else?
Tell me about the business, Lone Star Percussion.
What exactly is it? What do you do and everything like that?
A brief history of Lone Star Percussion, a gentleman named Harvey Vogel opened this back in 1978 and
he ran it for many years and then, he decided to sell it to another gentleman.
Then in 2006, the current owners, Jeff Nelson and Scott Zender purchased the business.
When they did that, they brought basically a bunch of their friends on.
Scott had many years of teaching in the area of Dallas, Texas, and he knew Jeff.
He actually taught Jeff's sons at one of his school where they attended and
I actually taught one of Jeff's sons private lessons.
It's kind of a very familial thing.
He brought along friends and obviously there were employees here that kind of assimilated to the new regime.
With that, they brought a lot of experience that did not exist with the other owners.
We have, just an interesting fact, everyone that
answers the phone here if you call in and you want to speak with somebody to order something,
everything single guy that answers the phone has a music degree of some sort.
All those guys gig and/or teach professionally here in the Dallas, Fort Worth area.
One of them has a lot of experience teaching Drum Corps, DCI, which maybe we'll talk about in a bit.
That experience that we all have, it sets up apart from some of our friendly competitors that we have.
Over 160 combined years of gigging experience between all the employees here
and that covers all genres, orchestral, jazz, rock, country, new wave, Goth rock.
You name it, we all either currently play it or have played it.
Some of the other experiences we have, I just mentioned DCI, which stands for Drum Corps International.
Between that and WGI, which stands for Winter Guard International,
we have I believe it's 45 or 50 years  experience as players.
Both of those organizations cater to youngsters 21 years of age and younger.
When we were all younger, we took part.
If you're not familiar with that, DCI is super cool.
You get to rehearse many, many hours, but in the summer during the competition season, you go on tour.
When I marched, I think there were 128 members per corps and I think they've bumped that up to 150.
There's a whole entourage of buses and you get to tour the country and play shows every night,
and rehearse every day out in the sun and work on your suntan.
It's a lot of fun.
Like I said, we have 45 years  experience and from Drum Corps all over the United States.
All of us have made lifelong friends doing that and
that's how a lot of us here knew each other prior to working together here.
It's like, "Oh, you marched at Sky Riders or Blue Doubles," or whatever.
"Oh, cool.
I know this guy." It's very like I said earlier very familial and there's a common ground that we all share with that.
What else?
Tell me as a business, what kind of services do you offer?
What kind of products do you sell for the average consumer?
If you can strike it, we sell it.
We sell percussion.
That's what we concentrate on.
A lot of people don't consider pianos and synthesizers percussion,
but because of the hammer striking the string on an acoustic piano, it all falls into percussion.
We sell drum sets, marimbas, timpanis, cymbals, gongs, synthesizers, microphones,
microphone cables, samplers, beginning percussion kits, practice pads, sticks.
We have a huge inventory in this building where we're sitting.
It's 25,000 square feet of stuff, all percussion.
That's what we do.
We all love, eat, drink, sleep percussion.
What would you say your average customer would be?
Would they be schools or would they be just the average person wanting to purchase ...?
It's a combination of both.
Our bread and butter is schools, everything from elementary schools up through colleges and universities.
We sell a lot of that.
We have a big web business.
People can log on to our website and buy from us from anywhere in the world obviously.
We also field hundreds of calls every day, sometimes during our peak season, which is August, September, October,
we have six phone lines and sometimes those phone lines will be all busy all day.
If you can't get through to us, be patient.
Tell me, what are some of the brand names you work with?
If they're coming from overseas, what's the process of importing them and getting them here?
We sell brand names that people might recognize, Yamaha, Tama drums, Pearl drums,
Adams keyboard instruments, Ludwig, Musser.
We have a wide variety of products coming from all over the world.
We primarily work with the U.S. wing of each one of those brands.
There are however a few brands ...
We recently acquired Canopus drums.
They're from Japan and we buy direct from them.
We have to pay the large shipping fees to get them here to Texas.
We buy from Brady drums, which are out of Australia.
Again, shipping to get the instruments here is not cheap.
For me, I'm actually the guy that works with Canopus.
I've made friends with a gentleman named Nori and he will call us from Japan when it's midnight there
and 9:00 AM here and that's how they conduct business.
It's been fun for me getting to work with somebody literally thousands of miles away.
What's the process of that?
Is it pretty intense to go through all the paperwork and the fees and everything or what ...?
All the manufacturers make that as painless as possible for us.
The companies that we buy direct from overseas,
there's a way obviously for the products to travel across the ocean to get here
or sometimes they'll fly them here if it's small enough.
We'll meet some of these people at NAMM.
I don't know if you're familiar with that.
That stands for National Association of Music Merchants.
They have this huge convention every January and it's in Anaheim,
California at the Anaheim Convention Center and it's literally ...
It's not in one exhibit hall or two exhibit halls.
It's the entire convention center and it spills out into the neighboring hotels.
That's actually where Jeff Nelson, one of the owners and myself met the gentleman from Canopus drums,
and we struck up a relationship and we now sell their drums.
Things like Pearl and Adams, they have a U.S.
branch that's in Nashville.
Yamaha, they work out of California so they handle all the importing and all of that,
and then we buy direct from them.
Then they ship here or sometimes if schools or university are buying a drum line ...
I neglected to mention we sell a lot of drum line, snare drums, marching tenors, base drums.
We sell a lot of that every year.
Sometimes those products, they never even come here.
Sometimes they're just drop-shipped to school A, school B.
That's how that works.
What makes your specific business stand out from any other percussion store?
Aside from the vast experience that we all have,
we also make a huge effort to go to different conventions and trade shows for educators.
For DCI, for WGI, we drive, somebody calculated it, about 15,000 miles each year going to shows and
sometimes it might be one or two of us going.
When we go to PASIC, which stands for Percussive Art Society International Convention,
that's every November ...
Last year in 2013, we took 11 people because we were at that show
and then coinciding with that show was BOA, Bands of America.
They had their big grand nationals going on in the same town so
we all got to Indianapolis and then split apart,
had a show over there and a show over here going on simultaneously.
Do you also have shows at TMEA in San Antonio?
We go to TMEA.
We just had some people return from TBA, which is Texas Bandmasters Association.
We go to Florida Music Educators Convention in Georgia.
We've been to Oklahoma.
Yeah, we go everywhere.
If there are potential customers and relationships to build, we'll go.
You travel domestically all over the place.
Have you traveled internationally or do you have plans or open to that?
Who knows what the future holds.
We have not.
Some of the ...
Jeff for instance has traveled and Scott,
both have traveled to Europe to meet with manufacturers of instruments over there.
Jeff got to go to the MEINL Plant, which I neglected to mention that.
MEINL's a German company.
We have Adams instrument, they're from Holland.
We have manufacturers we represent from everywhere.
Those are the big companies, but we also embrace the smaller companies, boutique companies.
We picked up Craviotto drums, which are American drums,
Noble & Cooley, which is the oldest drum company in America.
They actually still use the same presses that they used during the Civil War believe it or not.
Some of heir company's drums... hundreds of years old.
Their company's hundreds of years old.
Zildjian was originally a Turkish company.
They're now in Boston, Massachusetts, but they've been around I believe since 1623.
They're one of the oldest companies in the world.
We also offer lessons here.
We have three instructors here right now and we teach drum set, snare drum, marimba, again, percussion, we teach it.
You guys are really qualified to offer those lessons.
Right.
All of our teachers have music degrees and many, many years of playing.
I was actually the first teacher here.
That was how they roped me in.
"Hey, you want to help teach some lessons here?" Then I slid into the business side of things,
but yeah, so we can direct people if they're unsure about what it is they want.
Especially younger, less experienced players think they need the Rolls Royce of drums and
we're not into gouging people.
None of us work on commission so we're just as happy to sell you a $10 practice pad or a $10,000 drum set.
As long as you're happy, that's what we care about in the end.
Tell me a little bit about the company culture here.
How do you guys interact with each other and is it pretty casual or pretty strict?
It's very casual.
Again, I think I said it earlier, we all have this common ground of percussion.
We're all very brotherly about our love for that.
Most of us believe it or not, I'm dressed up right now.
Most of us wear shorts during the summer and T-shirts, sandals.
It's very relaxed.
However when we go to a show, we'll dress the part, but it's still ...
We don't put on suits or ties when we go out in the public.
It's more like what I'm wearing now.
We are very professional with our customers, but behind the scenes, we're pretty loose.
How do you think this kind of company culture compares to the typical American company?
Is it pretty similar or do you think it's pretty different?
I think parts of it are similar.
I come from the teaching background where you have to ...
I taught in public schools for many years.
You have to be pretty straight-laced because you're working with students and younger people,
but I believe most people behind the scenes try to have some fun because when you're behind your desk or whatever,
there's so much pressure to do the job right, to get it done quick and
move on to the next that it's good to be able to relax.
We all are on first name basis.
We don't refer to our boss as Mr. Nelson, or Mr. Zender or anything like that.
It's Jeff, Scott, whoever.
It's all first name basis and we like it that way.
That way if there is an issue, you feel comfortable approaching the person.
I think it's interesting.
It's hard to get a job here.
A lot of people ask because once we get in here, we like it and people usually don't leave.
I think that's a great thing.
If somebody leaves, the position is typically filled quickly, but in my tenure here,
the company's grown so we've added people, but not many people have left.
I think two, three.
Because like you mentioned before, it's not just people looking for a part-time job.
Everyone working here is educated and musical experience and everything.
Yeah, and they want to be a part of the team.
I have no idea how many applications are sent in, but there are a few people that work here now that I recommended.
"Hey, this guy is cool.
He's smart.
He knows his stuff, and we need this position filled and he's the perfect person for that job so let's get him in here."
If people are interested in purchasing your equipment, what do they do? What are the different options they have?
You can walk in the store.
You can call us.
We have a 800 number, toll-free number, and we also have our website.
The 800 number is 866-792-0143.
Our website is lonestarpercussion.com.
That's our catalog is our web store and it's mostly complete.
There are some special order items that you will have to call in and figure out what it is, parts and things like that.
We don't have all the parts, all the small parts to the marimba on our website.
You just have to call in and go from there.
Frankly, we prefer talking with people.
We like the personal interaction as opposed to the faceless ...
It is 2014 so websites are necessary, but we find it more entertaining to us and
you're able to share facts easier over the phone or preferably face to face,
and that's why we do all that driving to get face time with people all over the country.
You mentioned how you're different from other music stores.
How do you rank internationally or nationally?
I would say as far as percussion stores, I would put us in the top three,
top two depending on the day of strictly percussion stores.
There are companies that sell percussion that are part of a huge corporate umbrella.
We're not as big as those guys.
We have a store where we all work and we have actually one,
a West Coast outside sales guy that lives in Southern California,
and that's the only guy that doesn't work here in the store on a day-to-day basis.
Why should people be interested in purchasing from a company in Dallas, Texas versus anywhere else in the States?
Is there something about this region that makes it special?
We are more personable than some other people out there.
Like I said, Texas especially is a hot bed of the marching percussion and
we're blessed to be in this region because there are ...
I have no idea how many marching bands there are in Texas and some of the best in the country
are right here so we're fortunate to be right here and interacting.
Some of us have taught some of the best bands in the state during any given year and that's another reason.
We have experience that's why I think people should call us.
We have experience that somebody else may not have as instructors, as players, as technicians.
The name of your store is Lone Star Percussion.
Do you have any tag line or any kind of phrase that you go along with that?
Our motto here at Lone Star Percussion is we speak drum in a literal sense,
but any drummer from anywhere in the world that can speak drum and
what I mean by that is we can chuggata, chuggata, cheez, cheez, chuggata, charrah.
Indian, North Indian, South Indian drummers, they have to learn their different syllables.
I don't know those syllables the way I should, but I could relate to anybody from Japan to Australia to Germany.
We could phonetically, especially with our experience in the marching arts.
We actually when we go to shows, we have little contests and giveaways.
We'll have customers come up and we'll have a lick, a drum phrase written out in musical notation and
we'll have them sing it or say it.
We speak drum.
Chuggata, cha, cha, chacheez, cheez, diggity, diggity, dat.
If they sing it right, we'll give them a shirt or a bracelet or a poster, some sort of things like that.
The kind of again ...
Our involvement with DCI and WGI, it kind of brings it full circle as far as the international feeling of drums.
Even though we're here in Texas, we can work with people overseas.
When we go to shows like DCI, there are a lot of people,
a lot of the participants who are actually from Japan, China, Korea, Germany, all over.
When I marched a long time ago, the timpani player for our group was from Japan and
he spoke a little English, enough to get by, but we all spoke the language of music so we could communicate.
By the end of the summer, he was teaching us some Japanese phrases and
he had obviously learned English pretty well before he went back home to Japan.
Every year when we go to WGI in Dayton, Ohio, there's a group from Japan called Aimachi,
they're fantastic, they're fantastic and they may not win,
but they are like as far as show design and just being different, coming at it from a different angle.
Everybody in the whole show, even us in the booth were taking turns.
"Who gets to go watch Aimachi this time for prelims or finals,"
and we're arguing because it's incredible what those guys do.
It brings it full circle.
We're actually, one of our posters,
I believe it was our very first poster where we did our motto of We Speak Drum, there's a ...
I believe he was from Japan and we used a stock photo from WGI and that was the guy.
He came to our booth the following year and we gave him the poster.
It was really cool because we got to hang out and he sang the drum lick.
It's really cool.
That is cool.
Even when you use these certain syllables, it's the same in every other language, too?
It's regional dialect, but we can relate.
For instance, if anybody knows what a flam is in drumming, it's kind of a two-part chut.
When we here in Texas, when we say chut, we're insinuating that we want a flam to be played.
If you play chuggata, chuggata, chuggata, that's a rudiment called a flam accent.
If you play it with your hands, you get.gs
If you say it with your voice, chuggata, chuggata, chuggata.
That's one example that we can speak what we're thinking.
In other languages, they might say something similar to that.
Similar.
Here in Texas, a lot of people say y'all and if you go up to the northeast, it's you guys.
There's regional dialects, but yeah, we can relate.
Awesome.
All right.
I think that's all the questions we have.
Cool.
I appreciate it.
Thank ...

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Well, I think I should.
My name is Tom Perini.
I live in Buffalo Gap, Texas.
We have a ranch here that the family bought in 1952.
We opened a steakhouse in 1983.
The steakhouse has been here 31 years.
I basically have been in the food business ...
I started working on a chuckwagon in the seventies.
Basically 41 years, I've been involved in food.
I, for years, raised cattle commercially.
Have raised cattle, cow-calf operation, feeder operation.
I have gone completely from cow-calf operation,
where you raise cattle, to what we call the center of a plate,
when you are actually serving beef.
We do have cattle on the ranch here, they are longhorns.
They all have names.
Which means pets.
They will live a happy life.
There is no relationship between these cattle and our center of the plate.
We use great beef. We use certified Angus beef.
It's aged and it tastes very good.
We've been very pleased.
I'm thrilled to be from this part of Texas.
Tell me about your life before you started your restaurant.
What was your background before that?
You mentioned briefly about the cattle, but can you expand on that?
Sure. Basically, I grew up in Abilene.
I went to the local schools.
I did not graduate from Abilene High School.
I, for some reason, was sent to a military school, and I don't know why.
I spent my last two years in a military school in San Antonio.
Peacock Military Academy.
I grew up in Abilene all my life.
Wonderful city. It's a great place to live.
When you are a kid growing up in Abilene,
you want to get out as fast as you can,
but after you get out into the big, bad world,
it's just kind of nice to come back. Which I did.
I came back here. I graduated from high school in '62.
Went to college for a year or two.
Ended up coming back here in '65 and I've been here ever since.
When I used to raise cattle,
we used to lease a lot of big ranch land up around Stanford, Texas and all over.
I was running ten to twelve thousand acres at one point.
We had a cow-calf operation, a feeder operation, everything you could do to make a ranch work.
It's a very difficult way to make it work.
A very dear friend of my in Albany, Texas,
who was a friend of my father's,
honestly, he was my mentor, or is my mentor,
we were talking one day and I was having a hard time making a living raising cattle.
I talked to him about it, and his comment was,
that he had found that the best cross with a good Hereford cow,
was an oil well pump jack.
If you didn't have a lot of pump jacks,
you need to think about whether you are going to be in the cattle business.
I said, well, I don't have them.
His name was Rod and I said, I don't have them.
I really hate to get out of the business,
because I enjoyed working with people in agriculture,
and it has been a great relationship.
He turned to me and he said, "You can do more for the beef industry by cooking it,
than you can by raising it."
He said, "I think that's what you ought to do."
He said, "You know how to cook beef."
That was in 1982.
In '82, I sold out of my commercial operation and opened this up in '83,
and have been here ever since.
How did you learn how to cook a steak?
I have always cooked all my life.
I started in the 70's working on chuckwagons and cooking for cowboys.
I don't have any formal training.
If you over-season the beans, a cowboy is going to tell you,
"You put too much salt in the beans."
You learn through trial and error.
Our steakhouse, we try to do simple food.
I don't do any little dribbles on the plate.
I don't do any leaves on the plate. We do normal servings.
I have used the term, but I want the food to taste good.
I want it to look good.
I want you to be able to recognize it.
If it's stacked, then you go, "Well, how do I eat this? Or, what is this?"
That has defeated my whole theory.
Simple food can be very good.
A steak, a simple steak with green beans, or mashed potatoes,
or whatever, can be wonderful with a nice salad.
You don't have to be cheffy, and we're not.
I have a lot of good friends that are chefs and they do a wonderful job,
but our deal is not. We're just simple, Texas food,
that all started from the cook shacks.
You can get a good steak and some sliced tomatoes and it can be wonderful.
That's what we do.
What are your strengths?
Comparing this steakhouse to any other steakhouse in America?
Staying true to our beliefs.
We've been her 31 years. The first 12 years were tough.
The restaurant business is tough.
First 12 years were tough.
We've had a lot of things that have happened.
There have been breaks that have helped us tremendously.
There are a lot of great steakhouses.
You go to Houston and Dallas, and there are places we go
that are beautiful steakhouses and great interiors
and they are using prime and all the trimmings.
It's wonderful.
For what this is, we are a steakhouse on a ranch in Buffalo Gap, Texas.
Buffalo Gap is 462 people.
We're next to Abilene, Texas, which is 15 miles from Abilene,
which is a 115,000.
Sixty percent of our business, at this steakhouse, comes from within 150 miles of here.
That's Fort Worth.
That's Lubbock.
That's Big Spring.
These are people that are driving this distance to have dinner and drive home.
Besides that, then you have thirty percent of our business is from outside of that 150 miles.
That's Houston and other areas.
Ten percent is outside the state of Texas.
Talk about some of your clients that have come from far away.
Where do they come from?
We have them come from all over.
You can walk through this parking lot on some Saturday night
and there are cars from all over. People that have driven in.
We have people that come from all over the United States.
Which is fine. We're a true destination restaurant.
People drive here to have dinner.
I'm going to use the term, get a leg up.
Which means, from a cowboy standpoint, a leg up on a horse,
if you are getting up on a horse, you put your leg up and swing over.
That means we have an advantage,
because we've got a leg up in this business,
because we have people coming here.
They are coming here four hours before they get here.
It's not like you are next to a restaurant, and you drive
and say, "Let's go to Bill's."
That has worked for us.
That has been a big asset for us.
Do you have to do any marketing or advertising,
or does it just come?
We don't. We don't.
I knock on wood.
But- but, we don't have to advertise.
Our whole theory in all these years has been word of mouth.
And it s- and it's expensive to do it this way,
but once you build a base,
by word of mouth,
the base just gets stronger and stronger and stronger.
If you keep doing it. If you are true to your course.
Have you ever had a...
What are some of your clients that have come from the furthest away?
Where have you ...
I've had... matter of fact, we had one client come in from Japan.
That flew over here to have dinner and flew back.
American Airlines flew him over here
and he had dinner and he flew back to Japan.
In one day?
Well, it was a day and a half.
I think he spent the night in Dallas and then flew back.
Which was pretty fancy.
He was a big client for American Airlines.
They had a big company and he wanted to come to a Texas steakhouse
and he wanted to come here.
They flew him over and he had dinner and he spent the night in Dallas,
and flew back to Japan.
Did he mention how it tastes, compared to-
No. Our tastes are different.
We have a lot of beef that's in Japan, or in South Korea,
and not much in Hong Kong, I don't think, but in that area.
There is a lot of US beef there.
US beef has a different flavor. It's fed. All beef is grass fed,
then it goes in and you are grain fed.
It's quality beef
and I've gone all over the world promoting US beef.
Japan, Poland, Russia.
All over the world.
Trying to teach chefs how to cook beef, where they don't overcook it.
The better the beef is, the less you have to cook it.
If you don't have good refrigeration, then of course, you have to cook it more.
Do you teach courses in those countries, or do they come here?
I go to the countries. They still come here too.
I try to teach them how to, for example,
if you are using US beef, I eat mine medium rare.
I like it.
That's just the way I like it.
I think when you go above medium, you start affecting the quality.
You start getting tough and dry.
When you are using good beef and you have good refrigeration,
you can do that.
If you go to a country where they don't have good refrigeration,
everybody cooks it well done,
because they are scared of it not being handled properly.
That's the kind of deal.
I go and try to teach them how to do it.
In all your travels, have you ever had beef from other countries?
For example, Kobe beef from Japan?
I have. I have had Kobe and I have had beef from Argentina
that was grass fed and they treat their beef completely different.
Kobe beef is very interesting. I had Wagyu.
Kobe beef is a massaged beef. It doesn't do any kind of work,
so the meat is very tender.
Personally, it's a little soft for me.
To explain that, I'll use the term bite. It's like eating a marshmallow.
It's very tender. Very soft.
I like for the meat to have a little more bite.
I don't mean that Kobe beef is bad, by any means, this is my preference.
I like to have a little more bite.
I love the fat in Kobe and Wagyu.
The fat, like we use a high choice here,
but high choice and prime have a lot of fat.
Honestly, that's the marbling.
That's where your flavor comes from and helps with your tenderness.
There are some wonderful beefs in the world.
When you go to Argentina, they process a two year old bull calf
that never has aged and everything, and it's a little more firm,
but has a very rich flavor.
So you know, If I was from Argentina,
I would say, best beef I have ever had,
but I'm from Texas and I'm saying that our beef is pretty good.
The nice thing about US beef, I think it's a very clean product.
It has been handled properly.
They have very heavy inspections.
I know a lot goes to South Korea and to Japan.
I think it certainly is a good product.
The Kobe beef people,
it's kind of a limited production,
because they can't feed that many people.
It's very difficult to do Kobe beef.
Have you ever had any high profile customers?
We have lots of them.
Robert Duvall has been out here.
James Garner, who just died came out here.
Clint Eastwood.
We did lot of work for Governor George Bush and then as President George Bush.
We've catered at the White House, and at his ranch.
Incidentally, very nice people.
I'm a Texan, and I'm very proud of what he has done.
They have been very kind to us and we have done a lot of catering for him.
When he was president, we catered for President Putin at Crawford,
and the president of China at Crawford.
Which are two pretty high end clients.
Did you go there and serve them?
No. We cooked for them at the Crawford Ranch.
President Bush has a ranch in Crawford, Texas.
He invited President Putin and his entourage.
The same with the president of China.
He invited them to his ranch in Crawford and that's where we cooked.
Did you hear any feedback from them? / Oh sure.
President Putin, after he had dinner, came out and in Russian,
through a State Department interpreter,
said it was the best beef he has ever had. Six months later,
I went to Russia and met with his chefs and tried to teach them how to cook beef.
That's amazing. / Fun.
It is.
I don't know if they ... I took beef and stuff,
and I don't ever know if it got to the Kremlin,
but I met with his chefs and took him US beef and secretly,
I have laughed about this, but I think deep down inside,
if I could get US beef inside the Kremlin, I will be the beef salesman of the year.
I don't know if it ever happened.
They were very interesting and they listened to me and the problem they were having was,
that they were overcooking their beef.
We do it medium rare and I tried to tell them how to do that.
The president of China.
We've had some wonderful comments and things, which is very nice.
With our relationship with President Bush and Laura,
we have been exposed to a very high end clientele, which is nice.
Have you ever had tourists from those countries come,
because they have heard about it over the years?
We have had tourists come from all over the world.
You will have them come in from Scandinavia.
Being a destination restaurant, and not advertising,
it is truly word of mouth.
I was in London, Lisa and I were in London a year ago on an elevator
and there were some Americans on the elevator
and we were going down
and they said, "Where are you from?"
We said, "Texas." They said, "Where?"
Actually Abilene, because people never know where Buffalo Gap is.
We said Abilene and a little town south of there.
The guy went, "Buffalo Gap. Perini Ranch Steakhouse.
Best steak I've ever had." That was on an elevator in London
and I had no idea who these people were,
but they put together Abilene, Buffalo Gap, Perini Ranch. Just boom, boom, boom.
What did you say after that?
I said, "I'm Tom Berini." Then they kind of backed up in the elevator
and said, "No, you're not."
I said, "Yes, and this is my wife Lisa."
That was his response, boom, boom, boom.
That's what you want.
That was a natural response from him.
He knew about Abilene and when we said Buffalo Gap,
he just went boom, boom, boom
and he said Perini Ranch. We have a mail order business.
We sell our pepper beef tenderloins, all over the United States. Cooked.
He had bought a lot of them and sent them out as gifts.
It was an interesting conversation.
What do you see about the future of this industry?
Steakhouses, they are getting more popular all around the world.
I think I can see a future in it.
I'll tell you what is happening now in the United States.
We don't have many cattle anymore. In Texas, we're down to 1952 standards.
We have had a lot of droughts and fire and people have sold cattle.
Cattle prices now are as high as I have ever seen them, in my life.
The consumer going to the grocery store is having to make some heavy choices,
because beef is very expensive.
I think this will last two or three years.
I hope, in that two or three years, that people won't forget beef.
Because it is going to be expensive.
I think there are people that are in a economic stratus that they don't care.
They are going to buy it.
The average family that is trying to have a little beef,
or a hamburger, or something, it's going to affect.
There is nothing we can do about it.
It's just because we don't have many cattle anymore.
I think that will improve in two or three years.
Beef has been such a big part of our lives, especially Texas.
I gave a talk last night on the trails in Texas.
The Chisholm Trail. The Western Trail.
The Goodnight Loving Trail.
They sent a million head of cattle up to the north after the Civil War.
A million head of cattle.
That's what started the Texas beef industry, as we know it.
It's amazing. Twenty years,
but that's what it took.
It will come back, but I have never,
I'm going to get in real trouble for saying this,
but I have never heard anybody say, "Thank you for doing a good job.
I wanna take you out and buy you a big chicken breast." That's not what they say.
They say, "I wanna take you out and buy you a steak, or a steak dinner."
There is something that goes with beef that elevates it.
A steak dinner.
I talked to a guy in New York.
A taxi driver and he was coming to Texas
and he was going to go to a Ranger game and do something in Houston. He was,
I don't know what he was looking for,
I'm not going to go into that,
but he was talking about this
and he said, "I'm going to buy a big steak dinner."
You think about that.
This is a taxi drive in New York City,
and he's talking about buying a big steak dinner in Texas.
That's pretty good.
Do I think there is a deal from the industry?
Certainly.
Do I think there is going to be changes in how we handle beef
and what we do and how it works.
US beef, in my opinion is very clean and places like South Korea and Japan
that bring it in, I personally want to say, "Thank you,"
because they help the industry and we want to get good product to them.
Right. Tom.
Thanks a lot for answering my questions.
I really appreciate it.
It's a pleasure.
I hope you will come back and see us.
We'll have a real good steak.
We will. Thank you.
You are more than welcome. Thank you.

introduce yourself?
Yes.
My name is Devang and I'm the general manager of the La Quinta Inn and Suites in Abilene, Texas.
Great.
How did you get into the hotel business?
You know, I got into the hotel business back starting off in senior care
and because of the hospitality that we give in senior housing and taking care of senior citizens,
the owner of that property, who also was involved in hotels, thought that I would be a very good fit.
It's just one of those things you have to know hospitality for it.
That's how I got in.
Did you study anything specifically in school or have you just had experience over the years?
Yeah.
Exactly.
It was just working from the ground up.
I just worked at the front desk and learned my way and worked my way up.
Great, yeah.
What's your role here and what do you do on a day-to-day basis?
Sure.
As a general manager, I usually check in early in the morning.
I'll make sure the breakfast is running smoothly for our guests that are checking out.
I'll say, "Hi" and "Bye" to all the guests as much as possible.
I'll sit down in my office, take care of all the accounting paperwork and
all the reports that need to be sent over to the owners and after that
I will just make sure the operations are running well.
I'll check in with the different departments, such as maintenance and housekeeping.
Towards the latter part of my day I'll actually inspect a few rooms and make sure that
they are ready for our guests that are going to be coming in the next day and then
towards the latter part right when the guests are checking in,
I like to just hang out in the lobby and say, "Hi," and welcome the guests to our beautiful hotel.
Sounds great.
What makes a good hotel? What do you do specifically here that is better than other places?
You know, we do here is focused on teamwork.
It's not a one-man show.
You have to have a solid team of people that actually care about what they're doing.
Over here, I like to focus on the personal side of business.
In other words, I like to make sure that the employees are happy as much as possible,
the employees' kids are happy.
That sort of thing.
We focus on making sure that the employees are happy to come to work each and
every day and that's actually why we're different.
That's just something that other hotels don't focus on.
Everybody else focuses on business and numbers.
We focus on the people first and then the numbers always follow.
How do you handle difficult situations like when a customer is upset or has some problems?
Sure.
You know, we're all human so mistakes do happen and things always go wrong.
It's just part of the hotel industry.
The best way that I've found is to just stop and listen.
Put myself in the shoes of the customer, think about what it is that they're explaining to me.
Why are they angry and how can I best alleviate that situation?
Usually it's something as simple as them just needing a manager to kind of talk it out with.
Everything can always be resolved.
It's always a fun side.
There's always something personal that you can connect with so even
we can make problems turn into solutions very easily just by talking it out.
What kind of amenities do you have here? What kind of services do you offer?
Sure.
As a limited service property, we are a little bit limited in the stuff that we do allow for our guests.
For example, one of the benefits we have is a complimentary breakfast.
It's included in the rate.
There's no surcharge.
It includes a hot and cold menu item so we've got all the hot stuff such as eggs,
biscuits, gravy as well as cold cereals, juices, sodas, coffees, that sort of thing.
That's an advanced breakfast.
It's not something that you can get at your regular hotels.
Additionally we offer a outdoor swimming pool as well as an outdoor gazebo and barbecue area so
if you're going to be staying here, you can just borrow some of our equipment and
go out there and enjoy a barbecue and cook yourself.
As well as that, we offer rooms that have suites so if you want to have someone that you're entertaining
if you're an executive for example, for a company, you may choose to upgrade to our suite.
It's a larger room.
It gives you more space, perfect for meetings if you want to have a meeting in your office in your room
and just offers a little bit more luxury to your stay.
Do you do any marketing and advertising to promote the hotel and if so, what?
Sure.
As a franchise we do have the advertising and marketing offered to us from the franchise corporate level itself,
so that includes all sorts of things such as online advertisement which is very large,
social media advertising which is very big and trending right now as well as your standard television advertises, radio advertises.
How do you promote yourselves within the city to compete with the other hotels in the area?
The number one thing that we do is to focus on all the major events that are going to be coming into the town.
We find that our local crowd does attend those type of services as well as a lot of out-of-towners so
we've actually teamed up with local government that
will kind of give us a heads up when a large event is coming in to town in advance and we make sure that we're there.
We make sure that we're sponsors.
We make sure that our billboards are up.
We make sure that we're ready.
We make sure that our staff knows that these events are coming.
These are the types of clientele that you can expect for your reservations.
What's your hiring procedure?
You know, our hiring procedure is actually very complex.
For a standard hotel you would think that it would be very straightforward.
You just show up and apply but in this case, we actually have a long application process.
You come in.
You fill out an application.
If I choose to go forward, we'll set up an initial interview.
Usually it'll be with myself as well as my assistant.
Then if it works out great, then we will ask you to help us in completing a background and
criminal investigation check where we do perform a criminal history.
As long as everything is nice and clean,
we'll bring you right on back and if we choose to go ahead and hire you, we'll submit an offer letter.
If you choose to accept it, we'll get you started.
During the training, we don't just put you on the front desk.
We like to do a lot of computer training.
With it being a franchise, all the courses and everything are actually online so you'll sit for about two days or so.
You complete all the online courses, the examples, the role playing,
that sort of thing and then we'll get started with you at the front desk.
Even at the front desk, you'll spend about three to four days working with the most trained person
whose duty it is just to train the new employees so once if you're ready in about five or six days,
that's when you're on your own.
What kind of qualities do you look for in your future employees?
You know, it's not just about hotel experience contrary that many people may think.
What I actually focus on is the human aspect of it.
Do you have that customer service capability in you?
Then we can always fine tune the technology aspect of it and the training.
It can always be taught later.
Some things I just can't teach such as your customer servicing skills.
Right.
That's what we focus on.
Okay.
Well, thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
My pleasure.
Thank you so much.
Thanks.
All right.

So can you introduce yourself?
My name is Peter, and I m the operations director of the San Francisco office of Angell Echo and Magikid.
So, what exactly do you do in that role?
I oversee all of our operations here
including our couple departments we have, marketing, also, our content creation.
In a way, I m a project manager as well.
And one of my big responsibilities is
making sure that the communication and cooperation between the Chinese and the international staff
that it works well together in that we are able to accomplish all of our goals.
In addition to that, I m also... I oversee, make sure that finances are going okay.
I check with our accountants or tax people whenever necessary and those sorts of things.
So it s just sort of a little bit of everything,
but the majority of my work is making sure that Magikid products are on schedule
when it comes to the English language versions of our apps and try to facilitate the communication between all sides
to make sure that we can achieve our goals.
So how long have you been with the company, and can you talk about the history of the company as well?
Sure. So I ve been with the company for three years. I came on in July of 2011
and the way that I started working there was actually
our CEO s daughter was a student at the school where I was teaching.
I was a kindergarten teacher at an international school.
And so they were trying to localize their apps to English and she came up to me and said if I wanted to do this part-time
and I did that for about six months.
And then, when I was between contracts with the schools, she asked me to come on-board full time.
So that s how I started working there.
And just when I got there, Magikid Stage had come out.
That was our first app.
And the way that Magikid came about was, our CEO was playing Shoebox Theater with her daughter
and her daughter kept asking for more and more characters and more and more backgrounds to play with,
and pretty soon it sort of occurred to her,  This would be a really great app 
and we already had all the resources at that point to make the apps
because, since 2009, we had been developing apps for businesses, and one of our first big clients was Bayer Pharmaceuticals.
We also worked with Hello Kitty, Mizuno, the Japanese athletics wear company.
So we ve done apps for those kinds of companies
and while Angell Echo kept the lights on essentially, Magikid was able to come to fruition.
Who designs the actual app as far as the drawings and the animation go?
We have a graphics design department.
Right now I think it s about seven or eight people that s...
Are you asking who actually draws them?
Yeah, so we have them.
We have a certain Magikid style.
I mean, in the beginning we didn t, our style varied a little bit app to app
but then, a couple years ago, we set on one Magikid style.
And so, of course, we have the head of our department
to make sure that everything is within that, works within that framework
but we have about seven or eight people. Whenever the apps are being drawn, one or two people will be assigned to that project.
Or later on when we need marketing materials or any kind of materials, really
if we re talking to our business partners or possible business leads
we will also go to them and ask them to create all of our... we'll draw up the framework and the design
and then we send it off to them and it comes back in a pretty little bow.
How would you describe your product and how it s different from others in the market?
You know, what makes yours the product to buy?
I would say the number one thing that distinguishes us is that our apps are very comprehensive.
When we were developing some of our previous apps, we looked at our competitors to see what they were good at
because there are lots of other developers out there who make great stuff.
And so some of them were really good at video
and some of them were really good at storytelling
some of them were really good at designing games.
And so when we create Magikid apps, we bring all those things together.
An example I can give you is, well, we have an app, Magikid Numbers
that is just, it s coming out in two days.
And so the way that it works is, every single number has its own story.
So you go into one number and you listen to a story
and it s interactive all throughout so that you actually participate in the story.
And then that s followed by a game, and this game reinforces the concept, and that s followed by a song
which is just about the number one.
And so you do that for every single number.
Right now it s one through 10, and we have an update in the works.
So every single app has every single, I mean in this app
there are 10 games, 10 stories, 10 songs.
So we are really generous with the amount of content, I think, that we give to our users
which is what makes our products very long-term products for parents
and we think really good investments for parents as well.
What specific needs are you addressing specifically to your users?
When we approach what we deliver to our users, we want to deliver education and entertainment
so that if your kids are kind of being a little bit rambunctious you can give them this app and they ll play it.
And it s not just a way to get them to sit down for 30 minutes.
They will also walk away with a wealth of knowledge and experience and
hopefully, singing Magikid songs for the next couple of days, too.
And they re all educational, and that s something that we really focus on.
Who came up with the name of the app and can you describe the meaning behind it?
Well, I don t know if I can give you a great answer.
I just know that our CEO came up with the name.
She was, I think she told me she was walking in the park one day and it just occurred to her. So, sorry.
You ve got  magic  and  kid. 
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
So as the product manager also, can you tell me the duties involved in that?
When it comes to product management
something that s really important is just the initiation process and making sure that we want to move forward with a certain project.
So we want to make sure that there is a need for what we want to create.
So we look at other apps and other products.
And it s not just focused on apps.
We look at web-based software as well and books and textbooks and the old stuff and the new stuff
and look into the research and to make sure that there really is a need for, for what we re trying to create.
And then after that, we assemble the proper, I guess, specialists or experts on this topic
to really create content that is very rich and high-quality.
And, after that
it just moves down the development pipeline where it goes to the graphic designers
then to the developers, and then we debug and then publish.
And during the debugging process, something that we do a lot now is test our apps with kids
to make sure that we have the most, the best feedback, the most appropriate feedback and
you know, they really are the most honest testers.
Kids will just tell you what they think, you know.
There s not much of a filter there. So we make sure that it goes through the kids first before we put it out there.
I was going to... I wanted to tell you the story of Magikid Numbers,
because the reason Magikid Numbers came about is because before we had an app called Magikid Math
and it was first released only in Chinese, and our goal was to localize it to English.
But because there is so much content that I was talking about before
so many stories and games and songs that when we started to localize the content to English
it sounded just a little bit funny, you know.
And so we were thinking, how do we approach this and how do we localize this properly
and make sure it s something that an American or a French kid could relate to?
And so, what we ended up doing is moving in a different direction.
And my boss said  Instead of localizing Magikid Math, what you guys should do is create Magikid Numbers. 
And we would, and so we assembled an international team to sit down
and to talk about what we wanted it to look like, in what ways will it appeal to kids.
We made sure there were lots of teachers involved in this process as well.
And we then created Magikid Numbers and it went through down the pipeline.
And when it came out, it was our most successful app internationally, since ever for Magikid.
We were heavily featured in the British App Store and then in different European App Stores as well
and featured some in the American App Store, in China, and in Southeast Asia as well.
So we did great and it sort of really let us know that the
I guess, who works on the team for these sorts of things is really important
and sort of making sure that lots of different views are represented.
How did you assemble the team?
I mean, were these freelancers, the teachers, or were they already workers that worked in the company?
Well, because I had teaching experience I had a lot of contacts with people who were teachers already.
so we brought those team members on, I guess.
And then, just at our company, a lot of the people who work here used to be teachers, too, because we work in education.
We had that definitely going for us when we were starting to create that.
And at the same time we all did a lot of independent research
and then shared all that with with one another just what is the latest science
when it comes to learning numbers and those sorts of things.
And then, we really used our teaching backgrounds when we were creating the games
because something that really helped in this process was just remembering how kids played with blocks
that they love to build a castle or something with a big set of blocks
but something they love more than that is breaking it, you know.
So we incorporate lots of building up and just breaking stuff in the games that we create.
So we really let our own experiences influence how kids learn
and just, it can, it turned out to be very effective. It s something that kids really ended up loving.
So the education industry or education technology industry is pretty new, right?
Uh-hm.
Education through apps. How do you think the future of this industry is going to work out?
I mean, how do you envision this?
Hmm.
And any changes in the next five years?
When you really look at it, iPad is only five years, four years old?
You know, it hasn t been around that long, and the iPhone is only, has been around for only a couple years before that.
So, I think right now there is a big push to get iPads into the classroom
and the way that it s being pushed into the classroom now is much different than the way it was pushed in there two years ago.
Because before, teachers and administrators saw this great piece of technology and they thought
 Oh, this is going to be good, you know. We re not sure how yet. 
Nobody really knew.
There weren t that many materials out there to be able to use this technology in the classroom.
But now that s very different.
They're with content, we re actually working now ourselves on a platform for educators.
So I think the way that it s sort of narrowing down and it s getting more and more specialized
and just like generally on the App Store, the quality of the apps is consistently getting better every year
like, the apps are better than the year before.
And so I think that with education it s definitely going to go the same way
and teachers are going to be able to do some really cool stuff in the coming years
because lots of companies, us included, are really trying to understand what tools do you need to
have an awesome lesson, an awesome class and to make sure that it s malleable and flexible
and it can fit many different kinds of lessons.
And so, once those specific needs are being identified, I think it s going to lead to some pretty cool stuff in the classroom.
Can you also talk about your educational background and how you met the CEO and how you got involved?
Let s see, my educational background.
I was a kindergarten teacher in Shanghai at a program called Maple Bear School.
It s a franchise Canadian school.
They provide all of the curriculum, so my students were in an immersive classroom
so I had the same 10 to 15 kids, depending on the time of year, from 9 to 5 five days a week.
And so, I think in that setting I was really able to see
how kids who would show up to my classroom who didn t speak a lick of English
and then three months later they re carrying on conversations really well
and not just getting by but communicating full on, and that really opened up my mind to how kids learn.
And then, also, in that classroom, it was a little bit of an experiment
because you saw what sorts of lessons worked, what sorts of lessons didn t work
and that really informed my opinion and my views later when it came to education and technology.
And then the reason why I met the CEO, it was just
I don t know if you want to put this on camera
but she just saw a white guy walking around the school.
You know, it s in China. So she was like  Do you...? 
So that s how she tracked me down, essentially, was her daughter s teacher was like
 Listen, her mom saw you walking around and she needs somebody,
she s looking for somebody to localize this stuff. Would you be interested? 
And so I was like,  Sure,  you know.
I went in and in the beginning it wasn t just localization.
I guess a part of the localization was I had to do all of the voice work for all the apps as well
to read the stories, all the narration and every click of the button.
And so I came in and I auditioned and then, a week later, they told me that they wanted to work together.
So that s how it got off the ground.
Can you talk about how are you funded?
And do you have any investors, outside investors, anything like that?
Yeah. Okay, let s see.
I guess the most important thing is that Magikid is profitable and Angell Echo is profitable.
So we re not necessarily in need of investors.
It s not to say that we re not working with investors and we re not talking about the time
but it s something that s at a very stable point in our company s life right now.
And so, I mentioned earlier we started Angell Echo, in 2009
and that was our CEO and a small group of investors
and we developed apps for companies, for businesses
you know, a lot of apps for in-house training in certain companies or an app for a marketing campaign for another company.
And so, as we started to develop those apps, we built up our portfolio
and then more companies trusted us and we developed more apps for different businesses
and at the same time, I said earlier, this kept the lights on, and then Magikid was able to start off.
We released Magikid as Magikid Stage.
That really took off. It was followed by Magikid Train.
It did really well also.
And then Magikid kind of broke off from the company and became a subsidiary.
And so that s how Magikid kind of came about, and then Angell Echo and how those two work together
but both are profitable now, so
What series funding are you in? Do you know what?
No, I don t, because ever since I moved over here, I m just not in
I have no idea what s going on
in that respect. Yeah.
All right, well, thanks a lot for talking with us.
Okay, yeah. No problem.
And your answers are really helpful, so
All right. Thanks.
thanks a lot.
Yeah. Thank you.
All right.

Could you introduce yourself
and tell us a little bit about what this company is?
My name is Oded.
I run business development and partnerships at Umano.
Umano is a mobile app that basically picks the most interesting articles online
and converts them into audio using human voice,
so you can actually listen to articles when there are times that reading is not convenient.
How do you find out what are the most interesting articles?
Is there an algorithm?
Yes,
we're using both an algorithm that scans hundreds of publisher's content.
We're using usually our partners RSS feeds,
and we use in the algorithm different factors.
For example,
like social signals, keywords, et cetera
to pick articles that the algorithm thinks that it would be very interesting.
Then obviously,
there's the human element,
which there is a team here of curators that looks at that list
and provide their own insights.
So we're trying right now to select every day,
around 300 articles
that are the most interesting articles
that we think our listener base would enjoy.
Those fall into ten categories:
lifestyle, news, entrepreneurship, finance, et cetera.
Every day -
usually around the afternoon, evening -
those 300 articles are basically being distributed to our community of voice actors.
We have many, many people like you and I.
People that just have--
some of them, it's their job.
And some of them,
it's regular people that have a great voice,
and they turn around those articles.
They record them, and they're being uploaded to the app.
So that's basically the process.
So the people who are just freelancers,
they just want to use their voice.
Are they paid for that or is it just--?
Yes, they're paid for it.
So basically, they're paid for it.
On our website - on Umano.me - it says,
"Become an Umano narrator."
You can actually submit an audition.
So we're getting daily,
dozens of auditions from people that want to read for a--
because the Umano community.
The nice thing is that you have people that want to become curators.
So if you - for example - read a great article,
you're like "Wow, people would really enjoy this article."
You can submit it to Umano.
Already, we have a Chrome extension.
As soon as you click, it will say,
"This article was submitted. As soon as we turn it to audio, you'll be notified."
Now, of course, we're not turning everything into audio.
We're using our own internal judgment.
But there's some people that like to select articles,
and there's some people in the community that likes to convert them into audio.
How many articles do you do per day or per week?
Is there a--?
Right now, we're doing around 300 articles per day.
Wow, that's a lot.
So 300 articles per day.
I think that over time--
we're not trying to necessarily go about quantity.
It's more about quality.
So the ultimate Umano experience is one where you -
for example -
have a half an hour commute,
you're in the train or in your car, you play the first article,
and for the next 30 minutes,
you listen to like seven, eight to ten articles,
and each one of them is super interesting.
That's the ultimate Umano experience.
Already now, we're seeing very, very nice--
we're getting a lot of nice feedback from the users.
Actually, you can look at the reviews on the App Store
and the Google Store of people saying not only is it great concerning audio,
but we're doing relatively probably, a good job of picking the right articles.
Tell me about the history of the company.
When was it started, and how has it progressed up until this moment?
Umano was created two years ago by three Canadian co-founders,
that all three were working at some point at Google,
and they're close friends.
I believe they're friends from college days,
and they wanted to do a startup together.
They did not have this idea.
They just had the-- they wanted to do something together.
The story is that when they left Google,
they basically sat in a room and started to throw out different ideas,
and Umano was the third idea.
Over time,
they really decided this is a type of service or product that there's obviously a need for.
Everybody's familiar with books on tapes,
but no one has actually done it for articles - daily articles.
So they started working on it,
and they released - at the end of 2012 -
the first version, which was very basic on iOS.
And immediately, Apple selected it couple of months later,
and featured it.
So that actually generated the first big wave of installs.
A lot of people were asking,
"Please release an Android version."
So then, around - I believe - March or April of 2013,
they released the Android version.
Since then, we've been enjoying a nice coverage by both reporters,
and the Apple Store featured it three times.
In end of 2013, Apple actually selected Umano as one of the best 50 utility apps.
Throughout this period--
right now, there are six full-time employees at Umano
and more than 60 voice actors -
like you said, freelancers, et cetera -
that we're paying for their services.
Throughout this time, obviously, we have partnerships with publishers on one hand.
So recently, we announced a partnership with Forbes,
with Yahoo, VentureBeat, on one hand.
We also now have partnerships with car manufacturers.
Because what happened is
that all the car manufacturers out there are actually coming with their own infotainment systems.
So they want to have Umano already part of the experience so then,
when you drive, the car basically reads articles to you.
That makes sense.
Tell me, what's the name Umano?
What does it mean?
Tell me about your logo.
How did you come up with the name, all the design?
Umano means human in Italian and, I believe, also in Spanish.
The whole emphasis of the company is to use real human voice
and not text-to-speech technology.
Because obviously, there has been already for many years now text- to-speech technology,
but the co-founders specifically believe that in order to differentiate,
it needs to be a real human voice.
As for the logo, you can see here-- to be totally honest,
I was not involved in the process, so I'm not familiar with what went through it.
But it makes sense.
But I like it.
Cool story, bro.
Who is your target audience?
What are you trying to target?
And then, what is the reality of that?
What we noticed, right now,
we have more than one million unique users that actually installed Umano.
Looking at the Facebook connect data,
we're seeing that most of them fall between the age 20 to 45, around 60% male.
The general feedback is people that love information,
but either are too busy
and have those sockets of time during the day that they want to learn
or they want to enrich themselves, but they cannot read.
So obviously, the number one target is commuters.
Only in the US, there's 150 million people that spend half an hour a day driving.
That's the number one audience, by far.
Then you go in on the category that we call, People on the Go.
The guy that is walking his dog every day.
He is half an hour there; he listens.
Guy that goes on his morning hike.
The fitness category - the runners, the triathletes, the people in the gym.
Of course, music is typically the number one thing people listen to.
But sometimes you want to have an alternative to music,
and so far there hasn't been too many options.
You can listen to a book.
Now, you can listen on your 5K jog to one article from New York Times,
one article from Forbes, one article from Yahoo.
So that's the audience.
Tell me about your monetization strategy.
And do you have a free version or pro version?
Correct.
Currently, Umano is a free app.
But we only-- you can listen to the entire catalog,
but you're capped at ten listens per day.
Some functionality is only available in the premium version.
For example, offline listening, the ability to download articles, and access to playlists.
One scenario we're seeing our users really enjoying
is where they actually scroll through the different articles,
find articles that they think they would enjoy listening to,
so they add them to the playlist.
Then later on during the day,
when they're driving or when they're in the gym,
then they listen to them.
So that functionality is only available to premium subscription.
The premium subscription sells for $3.99 a month,
and it gives you unlimited access.
You can download all the articles, and you can use playlists.
So that's the number one revenue model for Umano.
How do you gain new clients?
How do you advertise?
What do you do?
So far, we haven't done any of that.
Actually, let me take it back.
We actually sampled a little bit, here and there, buying ads on Facebook.
But it's been really less than 1%.
Most of our growth has been so far, word to mouth.
Recently, we've started to expand by doing partnerships -
like with yourself, basically.
So that's the way we expose the Umano brand and service
to the people that we believe never heard about it
and would gain great value from it.
So speaking of that-- this is a good opportunity.
Let me show you our app.
One of our ideas.
You see, when we first open our app,
we have this one feature called Today's Conversation.
Every day, they receive--
The users receive free contents every day.
They can choose what time to receive it.
On their daily phrase, we have content such as learning a new idiom or phrase - expression.
So you see here, it'll say-- here's an example.
"My dad's birthday is right around the corner, so I'm going to go shopping for his present."
And it's teaching "right around the corner."
What does that mean?
A non-native English speaker may not know that.
You can listen to it right there.
Listen.
It has a little story explaining the grammatical details, and they can share it.
So this is the most popular function of our app because every day, it's new.
One idea, we could put, say an article by Umano in this area here,
because you've got the listening function.
You've got room for text.
This is what-- most of all of our users are coming here every day.
So you've got the normal lessons here, but this one is what everyone's going to everyday.
Very interesting.
In my opinion, that would be a great way to put it.
My only question would be, is the users that use that primarily,
what's their typical level, English wise?
Because the articles we select, some of them are quite sophisticated.
I would say that there's definitely a place to introduce articles here,
but there probably would need to be more--
almost, I would say, simpler articles.
What I would suggest would be--
I think there would be a market for non-native English speakers,
whether you're in the states or abroad.
Many people are interested in improving their English by reading articles.
Even Wikipedia, there's all the languages they have.
They have one called Simple English.
The articles are written in simple English, so people who are learning.
So you could have articles available in simple English
- so people who are-- they're learning, they're at an intermediate level.
It could be basic or it could be high intermediate,
and it can be available in two different levels.
That way, you're reaching all around the world, basically.
That could be an idea.
That's just one example there. Here's your app. If you want to talk about this?
We've just installed it, so let's actually
-- should I use your name?
That's right. If we use--
It says your-- is it BeNative?
Yes. If you enter that in as a promo code, then we get some deal--
Right, you get some free access to the premium service.
Yes. If you enter that in as a promo code, then we get some deal--
Right, you get some free access to the premium service.
Let me see here.
Basically, once you install Umano first time,
it asks you to select between - I believe -
up to ten categories of articles that you would be interested in.
I typically, for myself, choose technology, business, and entrepreneurship -
those categories I'm really interested in.
Then the first thing Umano does,
basically in your stories tab,
it puts articles that most likely you'll find interesting.
Let's choose one article.
For example, let's choose the "Apple wins patent for second smartwatch."
Let's listen to this.
This was posted on VentureBeat.
The nice thing is that you immediately see who narrated it--
Apple wins patent for a second smartwatch, the ITime.
The nice thing is that you immediately see who narrated it--
Apple wins patent for a second smartwatch, the ITime.
As posted on VentureBeat, written by Mark Sullivan.
The Patent Office has just granted Apple a patent for another--
So now, a  couple of things are interesting.
The Patent Office has just granted Apple a patent for another--
So now, a  couple of things are interesting.
You have three speeds.
You can listen to it in the fast speed.
You can listen to it in a slower pace,
especially for people that want to improve their listening comprehension.
You can actually read the article itself from the original site while listening.
So you have then the book icon on the top.
You click on that, and it will actually load the article.
You have a car mode
that basically allows you to see the interface in a very user-friendly way for the car,
and you have the share capabilities.
So if I enjoyed listening to this article,
I can share it on my Facebook or send it directly to a friend.
The nice thing is that if I share it with a friend who does not have Umano,
they'll still be able to listen to the article even without downloading Umano.
I can click on the narrator itself and basically,
see how many people listen to his articles, how many like him.
So I can see how popular this narrator is.
That's the main functionality of these stories.
We obviously have a popular section,
which surfaces the most popular articles on Umano.
And this is the playlist functionality that I described before.
Playlist allows you to save stories so you can listen to them later.
For that, you have to become a premium user.
So that functionality is only available to premium users.
My channels allows you to follow a specific channel.
So right now, when we came on board, we said business, entertainment, and technology.
Now, I'm going to click plus.
I'll see a list of specific publishers - CNN, Forbes, Yahoo.
Let's choose one.
I would like to go and see articles obtained directly from the Atlantic.
You can also see on a specific channel how many people already are following this channel,
how many people listen to the articles.
I'm in the Atlantic page, and you see basically, the articles that came from there.
Finally-- we set stories, popular playlist, my channels,
and the more, you can actually search for a specific subject.
You can see your activity, which is basically what kind of categories,
what kind of publishers you listen to.
So that's pretty much the app.
Very interesting. Thank you.
What was your educational background?
How did you get into marketing?
I went to Stanford, here in Palo Alto.
I got my education.
My major was economics, and my minor was in Mandarin Chinese.
I've been a serial entrepreneur from the time I graduated.
The last company I was actually involved with is Tango,
which is basically the US version for Kakao.
And I was responsible there on content partnerships.
One of the co-founders of Umano is a friend of mine,
so I've been following Umano from early on.
At some point when a lot of the businesses activities started around partnerships,
I decided to join Umano.
And here, I'm heading both partnerships, marketing, and business development.
Tango, isn't that more of a walkie-talkie function?
No, that's a company called Voxer.
Tango is more-- Tango is like Kakao.
I don't know if you-- you refer to Kakao.
Kakaotalk, where there's text, audio and video,
and ability to interact with entertainment while you're communicating.
That's their claim to fame.
Very interesting.
Tell me, what do you see about the future of the company,
and what things are you getting interested in in other areas?
There are two very interesting things happening right now in the space of the cars - auto mobile.
Where, I mentioned before,
literally every single car manufacturer is in the process of integrating some kind of infotainment system.
So really, cars are going to become computers on wheels,
which means that there's going to be much more audio distributed in the car.
For Umano, this is obviously a very important opportunity.
That's what's happening in the car space.
2015, 2016, every new car you'll buy there will already have an infotainment system and computer,
and you'll see Umano in a lot of those cars.
There's another space that is very interesting.
Another space is the wearable devices.
In the last few years - especially last year - we've seen a those fitness watches.
Samsung announced Gear, and now, Google announced their own play, and Apple.
So all those watches are also becoming very sophisticated computerizers,
but the screen is small, which does not really lend itself to reading a 3,000 words article.
We think that here, there's also going to be incredible opportunities for audio.
In general, when you asked me about the future, if you look at the young generation today--
and I'm talking about the 20-year-olds.
You're walking down the street.
Literally, almost every one of them has-- listening to music.
They always have ear plugs.
They're listening to something.
I think that the young generation today is more used to consume audio than older generations.
So in general,
we believe that audio is going to play a much more vital role in people lives through the car,
through the wearable, through the Google Glass.
And our hope is that the percentage of the time people listen--
of course, always music will be the number one category.
But we hope that the second percentage or some percentage would go to actually listening to articles.
Great. Oded, it was a pleasure talking to you.
Same. Thank you.
Thank you very much for joining me, and good luck. Thanks.
Thank you.

I only met you briefly so I should make it clear.
My name's Roy Terry. I live in Silicon Valley in Santa Clara.
And what I do these days is I help people develop the pitch.
In other words, persuasive communication.
And the pitch for folks who are not from Silicon Valley
sometimes are we talking about a baseball game?
Are we talking about trying to make a movie?
No we are talking about how to get funding for your start up.
Okay, so what got you into this kind of business?
A circuitous path got me here.
It was based on a lot of experience I had with different sized companies,
including start ups, including failed start ups which applies to most of them.
And it came out of this sense that things should be better
people should be able to communicate more effectively about with clarity
about what's being built, what are the expectations for the project and so on.
Then as I circulated in the valley and I started working in those areas,
in communication skills, say tech teams which I was a trainer in that area
I realized holy cow there are folks coming from all over the globe
who are trying to start businesses and they're very excited with the new prospects.
We have an explosion of startups based on new technology,
with handheld devices and what do we call  the big data
which is I'd of called it humongous data
and all the internet abilities to coordinate information about people.
There's a huge amount of excitement.
What I realized that many of these folks coming from different countries
were not comfortable getting the pitch
and were not able to fully explain their ideas
and they weren't getting the attention and the support they deserve.
On a contrary note, some people had ideas that weren't workable
but they weren't learning that fast enough.
They weren't able to pivot because they weren't doing the pitch and getting the feedback.
My role is to help them develop the pitch as good as it can be based on their ideas
and data and so on and then enables them to move forward.
Why is a good pitch so important?
If you can't deliver a pitch that well,
how can that be disadvantageous to?
It's hugely important for the reason that it's a very busy place in Silicon Valley.
Angels and VCs are bombarded constantly with proposals and ideas and so on.
They have to do a very quick take on what do they want to further investigate,
do they want to invite you for a meeting,
will they return your phone calls, all that sort of thing based on maybe two minutes
if you're lucky.
In those two minutes you need to communicate
that you have an idea that addresses a really serious problem
which has growth potential,
that you have a unique approach to that which competitors do not have,
and that you've demonstrated some evidence that you have traction
or that you have validated that this idea truly can be implemented.
Those are the kind of the magic dust.
Those things if it's a huge market, our solution is unique
and a winner and here's the proof.
You can do those things in a couple minutes.
then you have a chance to get on with the conversation and find resources.
It's hugely important.
Tell me what exactly do you deliver to your clients?
What are the steps that you to educate them?
Sure well..
First of all, I usually just listen to what they have.
There's a lot of note taking and so on that comes out of that.
If they have a pitch that is maybe 70%
sometimes we tune that up depending on how much time they have left.
But generally speaking, most folks haven't gone into pitching
with a clear idea of the structure that they need.
There is sort of a psychological and a presentation structure that's optimal.
The first step usually with a client is to walk through that structure and kind of fill in the blanks.
The first thing is, what in a nutshell, what does your company actually do?
Who are your customers and how do you provide value?
Then it's why is it such a big problem,
what's my solution and what's my business model?
Who are your primary customers and how do you attract them?
Well I could use more.
I attract customers by doing free workshops,
by doing a free session and also by blogging, and also going to a lot of shows.
So there are a lot of pitch competitions.
We're sort of swimming in pitch competitions in Silicon Valley.
And I'm often there and in fact I'm going to a social tonight.
And I will, in the course of that, offer, you know, off-the-cuff live coaching.
I think what attracts people the most is when I can do the live coaching.
Most people are a little bit surprised
because they're used to being criticized and my strategy for coaching is
that I become completely on their side.
I become an advisor and whenever I hear I try to amplify for them
and give it back to them in a stronger form.
Very nice.
So have you been approached to help others in other ways of speaking besides pitches
or do you primarily focus on just pitches?
I primarily focus on just pitches, but there is a broader circle.
I do coach and tutor high school students for speaking and for writing essays.
It turns out that in all these kinds of communication, having a clear organization and a strategy
that you can then build upon is the core element.
I can help a lot of different people.
In fact there are a lot of entrepreneurial folk in Silicon Valley
who do not have start ups.
In other words, they do not dream of building a hundred million dollar company
or a billion dollar company and becoming the next Facebook,
but what they have is is that they have a very talented oriented service business
or some kind of a product business which is more conventional
but maybe it's still exceptional
and they still need to communicate that message.
That's a different kind of pitch.
When you meet your customers how long do you stay with them?
Do you have several meetings with them or is it just a one time deal?
Sometimes it's one time.
What I usually advise is three meetings.
The reason is that as we grew up and we developed our communication skill to whatever level they are
we're all really actually extremely good communicators,
however we usually have a window or a range of comfort.
What I find is that I'm, in working with just one session,
I can give people new ideas and show them some possibilities,
however after just one session, they're likely to revert to their zone of comfort.
and so it takes two or three sessions
so that they can actually appreciate the new style of doing it
and being more accessible and bigger in the front of the room
so that the habits can stick,
so that they can really start a new direction.
What got you personally into being such a great speaker yourself and being able to teach that?
Thank you that's very flattering.
I don't know that I'm a great speaker, however
I do enjoy opening up and I think it is sort of we carry around mental rules.
In different cultures, they're more or less severe
but there's a rule about not standing out too much.
there's a rule about not admitting to think that you can do anything special,
that you're not just a normal guy in Australia, one of the mates.
If you're not a mate you're not welcome.
I think for me I somehow broke out of that
because I kept seeing potential to help people
and also to have more fun and be more satisfied
with what I'm doing instead of coding.
It became a motivation that look I'm not going to take these rules
let them rule me anymore.
I'm going to just break out and have fun.
Once you start doing that and you realize people like it
and you get positive feedback, then there's no going back.
I just started to open up and express myself and it grew from there.
Do you have any competitors that you have to compete with or ...?
Yeah.
I do have competitors. It's a curious market.
In fact I think it's a market that you have to sort of shake out.
There are folks somewhat like me
                         ,
there's no one just like me.
Actually my competition is mainly the free folks who are the past start up folk,
who are the angels and the VCs who have heard many, many pitches.
They know they're kind of like the old famous Supreme Court Justice
that said he knew pornography when he saw it,
he couldn't really define it.
They know a good pitch when they see it,
but they may not be able to articulate it analyze it into its pieces.
They're my competition and they're free.
That's tough.
If I might ask, what are your strengths of why customers should be going to you?
Sure. Sure.
I think my strengths are- due to the spectrum of experience I've had
I have a strong tech background.
There's very little in the innovation space
that I can't understand or with a few questions can sort out the most fundamental parts.
I've been in the start up world of technology for a long time
so I know software, hardware, networking and a lot of different things.
What I have that's different from most of the start up folk is
that I have studied one to one communication in great depth
and I've done literally hours of workshop practice and training in relating to another person
and establishing report with that person.
That becomes magical in a coaching situation
because then the person you're working with starts to get comfortable.
That frees up their creativity and their imagination.
It frees up their ability to try new things.
Okay. I think I've already asked you this,
but if you could in a brief way, what would be the main reason why you wanted to do this ...
As far as teaching, how to give pitches.
It is incredibly joyful to finish a session and have someone say
how much it helped and how much better they feel and how confident they are
and they can't wait to go and try it out.
That is great feeling.
Great.
Thanks a lot for your- all the information. I appreciate it.
It's nice meeting you.Thanks
Jonathan, It's great to chat with you. Certainly .

Can you introduce yourself?
My name is Eric Rajasalu, I'm the co-founder
and Chief Customer Officer for Thinktomi.
Tell me what does Thinktomi do?
Thinktomi is a Silicon Valley based education company.
We teach entrepreneurship and business education.
Who is your target audience?
It's interesting, we like to think that anyone could be part of our target audience.
There's a trend in, probably around the world, but here in Silicon Valley especially
where if you're older than 25 or 30 you're too old to be doing entrepreneurship,
and we like to say we're bringing education to people of all ages and backgrounds.
We're not really concerned with what your age is,
an example would be in our first class we had students that were 18 and students that were 67.
It really runs the gamut in terms of age.
What made you and your co-founder want to start this business? What was the driving force behind it?
There's a lot of things happening in the American education system right now,
one of the primary things is student debt.
Student debt is at $1.3 trillion, which is just a number that's hard to even comprehend and
that was one of the impetuses is trying to figure out how do we make education affordable number one.
Another thing that we noticed in education, having been in proprietary ed for the last ten years
is that a lot of the content is out of date.
You'll have teachers or instructors that are teaching from books that are five, six, seven, and even ten years old.
We wanted to be able to provide a solution that was affordable, relevant, high impact.
What do you do differently from normal education classes either online or in the classroom?
Thinktomi is bucking the trend of online,
we try to use that as a supplement to our classes, our primary course is done in person.
We really feel like interacting with students and building relationships is
a key part of entrepreneurship and we can best do that in person.
For us, one of the differentiators is again, bucking that trend, doing it in person,
and then also having content that's extremely relevant.
We're building a platform called Dynamic Content Management Platform, DCMP.
and what it does is it takes all of the current content, videos,
and articles relevant to the course work and puts them in one place.
For example if we're talking about venture capital or acquisitions in one of our courses
we might be talking about an acquisition
that happened right here in Silicon Valley just last week,
the What's App or the Beats acquisition by Apple, so it keeps it very current and relevant.
What is your background and what made you so interested in this kind of company?
I spent the last 20+ years of my career in sales and marketing in three different industries.
My most recent experience as a Senior VP of Marketing Admissions for a large regionally accredited school here in San Francisco,
so I'm pretty passionate about education.
I did my Master's Degree in Education, my Bachelor's in International Business and the combination of those two is
something that's always interested me, but most recently in my career being in education,
I think I saw what a difference it could make for people.
Having a product in this space that, like I said is affordable and
high impact and really makes a difference is I think the key.
Tell me, what do you think the future is of this kind of industry?
Do you have any objectives or goals for your company specifically?
Great question.
We're ...
It's clear that education is going to be changing pretty dramatically, I think even on a global scale..
We are looking to partner with other countries.
We have something that we're working on right now in Kenya, in Korea, in Chile,
where we see that education in those countries is going to be very different than what happens here,
but at the end of the day it's essentially, people need the same thing.
They need a skills-based education that is going to provide value, that they can actually do something with.
We're spending a whole lot less time on theory and a lot more time bringing that real world experience
so that people can go out and make a difference.
those very practical types of ...Courses.
Exactly.
What are the courses do you offer? Can you name a specific one?
Sure.
We call our programs Playbooks, we do that because we think of Playbook as a very pragmatic practical approach.
It isn't sports and we can use that analogy in education and our primary product is called Entrepreneur's Playbook,
that runs anywhere, we've delivered it in nine weeks over 20, 24 hours.
We've delivered it in 4 hours sessions,
it really just depends on what our clients want and how deep they need us to go into the content.
That's our primary product.
We have several other products that we're currently developing, we have a Boardroom Playbook.
The idea there is to really help entrepreneurs understand
what to expect when you have a Board and be able to manage with those issues.
We're putting together a Pitch Playbook
so that students that are going to pitch to venture capitalists or angel investors for resources for their company or funding for their company
know what to expect and how to approach it, again, very practical approach.
Do you envision creating new courses for the future as well?
Are there any on your mind or will you just see what happens?
We listen to what our customers and what the market is saying,
an example would be a Venture Capital Playbook, folks wanted specifics on how does venture capital work?
What are the ins and outs on both sides of the equation?
How do I make sure that I get a fair deal and my term sheet is set-up properly?
We're looking at putting together a Venture Capital Playbook, also a Corporate Incubator Playbook.
A lot of big companies now are seeing what's happening in Silicon Valley and
wanting to take that innovation into their big company,
there's a way to do that and organizations like SAP have done that.
We have the VP of Innovation at SAP who's a part of our team and one of our instructors
who is working and putting together that Corporate Incubator Playbook.
Are you targeting more B to B or B to C type of clients?
We initially started out targeting B to C and we just found that that's a pretty challenging way to fill your classes
because it takes us a certain amount of resources to create awareness for your product,
especially as a new company and we have pivoted to a B to B business model
which has worked out really well for us and consequently we've received a lot of referrals from doing that.
Tell me about your co-founders and the rest of your team, how did you meet and what is your company culture like?
It's a really great story of how we met.
We ...
I had in iPhone for 18 months and never broke it and I always made fun of people who broke their iPhone,
like "How do you break your iPhone?" I didn't even have a cover, I just never broke it.
One day I got mine, I got out of the car and the iPhone dropped and shattered.
I went online and found a company where they come to your house and they repair it right there on-site.
The tech came out, he was referring my iPhone, asked what I did for a living and I told him I was retired.
I was currently of, not working and he's like, "Oh my friend's getting ready to start this education company,
you really should talk to him," and I completely blew the guy off.
He's fixing my iPhone, he's sitting in my living room, I'm like, "Yeah, okay, whatever."
Remember, having ever broke my iPhone, two weeks later I broke it a second time, I'm like, "This is weird.
How the heck did that happen?  I called the guy out, he came out again and while he was there he was like,
"Hey my friend still in that company, did you want to see it?"
I'm like, "Send me some information I'll take a look at it."
Three weeks later he had to come out a third time, not because I broke it but the flash wasn't working and
finally I'm going to threw my hands up in the air and like, "Okay, the universe is saying I need to meet this guy."
I went to the incubator where he was residing or he met me over there and within a week I ended up joining him.
It's all because I broke my iPhone, this completely random experience.
I think destiny.
It's kind of serendipitous.
How many team members do you have along with the two co-founders and then  
There's actually three co-founders.
We have one other person who we met in our very first class,
she was one of the last person that come on as a co-founder, who's an attorney and helps us with the curriculum.
She's a key third leg of that stool,
and then beyond her we have three or four other team members that hold various roles,
and then we have a whole bunch of instructors that are Silicon Valley thought leaders
who will come in and teach various parts of our program.
Do you work from one location or you're all spread out? How do you communicate with each other?
We have a weekly meeting where we get together every Monday and go through all of our business updates and strategy.
We have regular phone calls every single morning
to make sure we're all geared up for the day to know what's happening
and then we use Google Hangouts a lot, so we can have video conferencing, sort of a Skype service that's free.
What are some challenges that you've dealt with so far in this company?
One of the challenges for any startup is determining what your business model is
and how it's going to fit the particular market.
We've pivoted slightly, as I mentioned previously,
we started out with the B to C, then we went to B to B and that worked pretty well.
Because we believe in-person education is a better approach than fully online education,
our biggest challenge is really scalability in trying to figure out how is it that
we replicate what we're doing so successfully throughout the US, and quite frankly the world.
What makes you so passionate about education?
I spent the last ten years working in education and seeing what a difference it makes in people's lives.
I really fundamentally believe that education is the answer, it opens up people's minds,
it gives them a chance to get in the door somewhere they wouldn't have been able to get into previously.
If you want to move up in your career or if you want to start a company,
whatever it might be it all begins with education.
Why Thinktomi?
I broke my iPhone.
I met this guy I hadn't thought about actually starting my own company for a long time until I met Manoj,
who's our CEO and co-founder and he and his experience in education is equally as passionate and
when you put that together there was no way I could say no.
It was taking a chance and very different from what I've done in terms of working in corporate America and in that type of environment,
but once you get bitten by that entrepreneurship bug it's contagious.
What's the story behind the name Thinktomi?
I had to ask Manoj because he came up with the name previous to my joining.
He was literally driving across one of the bridges here in the Bay Area and
he was thinking of some other companies and somehow the word "Think" came to be, and he went with Think,
and there's another company that used to be around called Inktomi and
I don't know if there's any correlation in his mind, but somehow he came up with Thinktomi
Consequently people think they've heard of us before which is sort of funny, I'm like, "No, you probably haven't."
It's turning out to be true, now they have because we've received some nice publicity but early on people
we're like, "Yeah, I've heard of you guys," and it kind of worked for us, but Tomi, Think is what it is.
Tomi is Japanese means rich, but rich in terms of education or culture or sort of abundance of knowledge.
The four colors in our logo represent each of those variations.
Right, thanks a lot for your information, I appreciate it and it was nice talking to you.
Nice talking to you too.
Thanks.

All right.  Could you introduce yourself for me?
Hi.  I'm Rick Rasmussen.
 I'm the Vice President of Business Development here at NestGSV.
And tell me what does NestGSV do exactly?
NestGSV is an accelerator. 
Uh, there's about six thousand different types of accelerators around the world.
We're bringing a brand new model which is a services model to the accelerator business.
Accelerator is an entity that tries to help start-ups build form companies
as well as take them to the next step, and that's what we're doing here in Silicon Valley.
And your position?  What do you do exactly?
I'm Vice President of Business Development so I work for the most part with
international companies, governments, uh, NGOs, 
uh, other accelerators from around the world.
many of whom want to connect and have some presence here within Silicon Valley, 
and we provide that service for them.
How would your company compare to other accelerators?
So, out of the six thousand accelerators in the world, about ninety percent of them are a venture model.
So it's actually a venture capital firm that tries to find good companies, 
give them some funding
run them through a program of limited duration typically ten or twelve weeks, graduate,
and then their business model, their profits are made
when that company that they invested in has an exit 
An exit being sold or an IPO or something along those lines.
So we're not venture based in that regard.  We're services based.
So what we do is we bring companies.
They can be here month-to-month for as long as they are continuing.
to thrive and gain benefit from being here 
And what we do is 
try to connect them with other entities that want to work with start-ups.
other entities, by way of example, would be universities,
other governments, service providers, large corporations, um..
people like along ..., venture capitalists, people along those lines.
Tell me, how long has, um, NestGSV been here 
and what are some of the services you offer?
So we've been here less than two years.
Here we are mid July, and we'll have our two-year anniversary on September 27.
So we provide services to individual start-ups here which includes the typical thing, office space, conference rooms, internet, printing, uh,
we do twenty events per month and so they are invited to all the events
We have a free education program that's ten weeks in duration for them.
So start-ups themselves get direct benefit.
But even more importantly are the services that we provide together with
large corporations and universities and governments
because they're looking for structured ways to identify and
 find brand new start-ups.
And so we have almost a hundred start-ups in the building.
We have a very large pool of strong talented companies
 that those entities want to connect with.
What's the education you provide?
The education itself starts with a ten-week MBA-style open accelerator.
That's what we call it.
And over the course of ten weeks, we take somebody from company formation,
building your team, identifying product market fit, building a sales force,
 raising money,,building a board, and eventually exiting.  It's pretty comprehensive.
So how many start-ups do you have here? 
How many, uh, how big is this building?
The building itself is eight thousand square meters, about eighty thousand square feet.
Currently we have almost a hundred start-ups.
Again, we're less than two years old 
and we're growing very rapidly adding three to four start-ups per week. 
And at that rate by the ... we'll be full by the end of the year.
And, um, do you focus on domestic companies, international companies, both?
What kind of benefits would you offer to ones coming from overseas?
All the above really. 
Silicon Valley is in a, uh, place that attracts talent from all other the world.
And about seventy percent of the CEOs here that have set up domestic companies are foreign born.
So there's a huge international contingent and flavor to what happens here.
Um, the ...  On top of that ...
So those are companies that are established here in Silicon Valley 
and they're going to grow and locate their headquarters here.
In addition to that, we have structured programs for international governments.
Ten different governments now and growing that have set up a formal program to identify best
and brightest start-ups within their countries that are looking to expand globally.
So they are sponsored and brought over here typically for three months, 
and we have a whole series of programs for them,
mostly for business development purposes, connecting them with partners 
and customers and people along those lines
Do you provide help or services to help, uh, international teams get visa paperwork or anything like that?
Or is that something separate?
We don't do that ourselves, um,
but we do have a network of service providers, attorneys,
contract attorneys, company formation attorneys, immigration attorneys, 
things along those lines that we make recommendations, uh, for.
Typically one or two in each one of those categories
so the company has a chance to, uh, interview them
and see who they would like to work with.
Um, around here it's pretty interesting.
This is also a service provider economy.
There's a number of service providers, the attorneys, the accountants, the recruiters, the PR firms,
that, uh, that understand what start-ups need
and have set up their own business models.
So they'll often do free consultation,
they'll often defer fees, and things along those lines.
And so that makes it work out very well.
So here when you get in an attorney it's somebody who's done start-ups and probably seen somebody through an exit.
It's not your family attorney.
It's not the same person that's going to write your will or anything along those lines.
These are start-up experts,
and that's one of the things that makes it so powerful to actually be here.
Last question.
Why Silicon Valley versus New York or any other major city?
You know, Silicon Valley has historically been the place to set up a start-up, 
and it's been true for over forty years.
You know, it's ...  Start-ups really emerged in the fifties and sixties and seventies, and so there's a whole start-up economy.
But information about how start-ups work and interest in start-ups in general 
has started to increase at a global level so the bar is being raised.
So, actually, New York or Los Angeles or Boston or San Paolo, or Santiago, or anyplace like that
can be as good a place to do a start-up as Silicon Valley.
It depends on what industries you're looking for.
It depends on what kind of culture you're trying to build.
But it is becoming a global economy for start-ups. That's for sure.
And NestGSV, actually, we are a global company so this location, .
Silicon Valley, is our first.
And we're ...  We have all our systems down,
 and now we're ready to stamp and repeat. 
So taking this same sort of an entity, large, centrally located, ecosystem
for start-ups, and to take that to the types of cities and locations that we just talked about.
Great.  Well, thank you very much for your time.  I appreciate it.
My pleasure.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.

Can you introduce yourself?
My name is Steve Hogan.
I'm managing partner of a group called Tech-Rx.
Alright and tell me what is Tech-Rx exactly.
Tech-Rx is kind of a combination of investor and turnarounds for consultants.
We're specializing in early stage tech companies with interesting technology that's working,
but these companies are crashing and burning for whatever reason.
Sometimes it's a marketing problem, sometimes it's a business problem,
but they're just going to die and without help.
We'll look at them and if their technology really does work,
and we re convinced that this can be part of a large market somewhere
and that we can fix the problems and
then all it's going to take is some money and some talent.
Then we'll take a look at these things
and see what we need to get them back on the road to profitability
and get them married off.
Great.
When did this company start
and can you explain the name behind it for people who might not know?
Sure.
That s a question we get a lot.
The company itself started not quite 3 years ago.
The genesis of it was a networking meeting
where I started talking about what I had been doing for 20 years.
I built and sold two companies already in my career and got lucky and made a few dollars.
I made every single possible mistake I could make of those things
and still had some success, and a lot of it was because I got some help
and didn't realize at the time I was getting help.
For the last 20 years, I'd been working on broken companies.
Some were profiles, interesting tech, what have you crashing and burning
and doing it for chunks of stock.
I came back out here in 2011 
March of 2011 for no particular reason other than it was too cold in Boston
and decided that we needed some nice and warm weather.
A good place to be was in Bay area.
I came out here.
I started networking.
Met a lot of fellows like myself
and you'll sit around at night
and you'll have a beer or a cocktail with these guys
and you all start creating old war stories
and you'll tell about this little turnaround you did that had really cool tech
and then they'll tell about the turnaround that they did that had really cool tech.
A common theme started to come out, that yeah,
these were cool companies and they were worth saving
but in almost every case we couldn't raise capital on day one
because the company's were viewed as wounded puppies,
as basically troubled companies that nobody wanted to put money into.
But if we could have had a half million dollar or a million dollars on day one,
it could have been much nicer exits.
We started thinking,
"Well, they will put together a fund and we'll put together a group,"
and that evolved to Tech-Rx.
The Rx part comes from a tagline we used to use-
 The cure for companies in crisis. 
We don t use it anymore but that was the original genesis.
So, it's a prescription for success.
That's the genesis.
It's not a healthcare focus although we do look at healthcare companies too.
It's probably better characterized
as the best parts of a private equity model would apply to the start-up environment
where we'll come in and take a look at the problems,
and bring you whatever management has to be applied to move company
towards success
with the goal of gaining that company acquired as quickly as possible.
Part of that's because most start-ups fail for starters
but most start-ups never really get to be standalone companies.
They're always acquired by somebody else...
as the reality of life
and is particularly more so of life
and because people build stuff that's not a standalone company.
It belongs as part of another larger company
and so we'll go on with that attitude on day one.
We don t expect to ever find another Google in this pile.
We do expect to find something that Google might like to add on to Gmail.
That's the genesis of it and we ve grown to...
We have 14 partners that are directly involved. Another 20, some advisers that are directly involved.
We are actually on the process that we will be announcing tomorrow
a venture fund that we're starting to target these types of investments.
Because many of them take three or four or five million dollars
but gaining that first quarter of million dollars into them has to happen right away
because they're almost always out of money.
We need a fund that we can tap.
That first shot of cash and that s the purpose of the fund.
Would you say that the goal of your company
and the other companies are to be acquisitioned by some other larger company?
Is that the...
Absolutely.
Our goal is exit.
We want to see an exit in two to three years
and when we walk in on day one,
we already have exit partners in mind.
It may not be the ultimately acquiring company
but we have the types of companies in mind.
We might think of some network company.
Maybe it's a Cisco product or a Broadcom product.
Somebody's like that.
Or if it's an enterprise software play,
maybe some Oracle player or Salesforce player.
Somebody that's tapping that market.
Interestingly enough,
when we re talking to the entrepreneurs they are with these companies,
They almost never are thinking that way.
They're almost always thinking that this router that they're building
or whatever this they're building
is somehow going to take them to a multi-billion dollar business.
It could happen.
Odds that are pretty small.
If that happened every time,
then there will be no need for people like us,
but it doesn't happen that way.
Are there other companies similar to you?
Do you have competitors?
It's interesting.
Every time we talk actually about our model,
they say, "Golly, we don t know of anybody like that.
There are no groups that we've been able to find that are attacking it like we do.
There's individuals that are recognized what this has done.
One of our partners calls us zombie investing.
Calls these companies zombie companies
because they're walking dead
and I suppose they basically are when we find them.
So you ll find individual instances of people that do that
but they're facing a challenge
and they're pretty much like I was doing for years.
Working on these companies,
doing it for shares only but not having the capital upfront.
Our twist is adding that capital to the mix.
The other twist we have, we have a broad base of partners.
If somebody walks in tomorrow with a medical device company,
I know nothing about medical devices but I have 3 partners that do.
We would go to those.
Tell me how many employees do you have here
and what kind of skills do all of you have
that brings all these to the table to help in every situation?
We have only 1 or 2 of the team members are actually drawing in any salary.
The tad bit younger guys.
Most of the crowd I call the geezer crowd.
The guys my age are in here just on the option
that we hit something that makes some sense
and works because we're all taking stock at these companies.
That's it.
There's no earnings.
Officially, we don t really have employees
but we have...
There are half a dozen other partners are active everyday
and another 8 of the partners are active maybe half time
and there's 20 advisers, they're basically ad hoc.
If we hit on to something that we'd say,
"Hey, that s, we need this type of expertise,
we'll call on one of those folks".
They all have either job somewhere else
or they're doing something else but they're part of the team.
Okay.
Very loosely knit.
No org chart.
Whenever you think of a certain partner that might work to acquire this other start-up,
who do you contact?
That larger company or do you have contacts already?
That's the nice thing about having what I call the gray hair part of this team.
Many of these folks had been around for a long time.
They have good connections.
For example,
one of our partners is probably the go-to guy in the valley
if you want to talk about data storage systems.
He's the chairman of the storage committee at the Community History Museum.
He's been the CTO of a couple of the large disc drive manufacturers.
He does a lot of consulting work now with solid state storage systems.
He's the guy.
When we bump into something that we say,
"This is kind of cool.
Who do you think would use it?
He'll say, "That could be this guy, this guy and this guy,"
and I can call their CEO
and see if they're interested, see what they're doing.
It happens pretty fast.
We actually have scenarios where we have had companies come to us
looking for help
and before he actually don't have an action plan in place,
we found somebody that acquired it.
We were in it for 3 conference calls and a meeting.
That's okay.
We don t make any money on that
and we don t care if we make any money on that
because the important thing is that company didn't die
and the technology did not get buried.
When he gets right down to it, Tech-Rx is very much mission driven.
We are absolute believers that every innovation,
large innovation, small innovation
ultimately benefits the society and that's good for everybody.
It turns out we can make money at that but even if we don t,
saving innovative companies is what it's all about.
I've got a 2-part question.
First, do the companies find you or do you find them and how?
2nd, what happens if they're not acquired in 2 to 3 years?
That's a good question.
We have an infinitely large supply of deal flow.
There are at any given point in time.
Stanford did some research on this.
It said at a given point in time,
there are 7,000 start-ups in the state of California alone waiting to fail.
There's a lot of deal flow.
The way they find us...
We joke about this.
You stand on a street corner and you say,
"I have the money for start-ups,"
and they find you that fast.
Practically it's all word of mouth.
Once somebody hears what we're doing,
they'll say,
"Hey, I know a company that maybe you can help."
We have a lot of deal flow.
That doesn't mean that we take every company internally.
We're very picky.
One of the reasons our investment model works is that we're very picky.
However, we will talk to every single company that knocks on our door.
Listen to their story
and a lot of cases they re just looking for their first round of capital
then we'll say,
"Hey, go talk to this angel group or go talk to these investors"
We'll point everybody in a different direction.
It's pretty rare we don t give somebody a path.
We do kind of mentoring also.
I'm involved with the under 20 program at the Thiel fellowship
but you may or may not be aware of
but it's really, really, really smart young people,
all under 20 amazingly enough,
who are funded with a $100,000 grant to pursue their dream, whatever that is.
It is doled out to them to them over 2 years.
Their dream is going to Vegas,
they'll probably want their dream they get to pursue.
Most, they're brilliant folks.
They all have world-changing ideas
and sometimes with the 2-year period those ideas change,
but the other part of the $100,000 is they get access to a ton of mentoring.
A lot of our partners are mentors in their group.
A lot of other folks of the valley
and around the San Francisco area as far as New York
and all other country act as mentors in that group.
What we're doing is just a variation of that theme.
Is talking to entrepreneurs,
mentoring them,
trying to help to redirect their company,
trying to get them out from under the things they ve done by mistake
and get them towards a healthy exit so they get to repeat that process.
The coolest thing in the world is if you'd get an entrepreneur out to some sort of exit
and he makes a few bucks
and he says, "I got this idea for a new company,
and they get to pursue it, versus,
he did their first company, loses all those money, crashes and burns.
He gets to go work for somebody else and say,
"Man, I got this other idea but I can't do it."
Just being able to cause that loop to happen is worthwhile.
It's nice to get the investors get some money too.
Earlier, you mentioned the word deal flow.
Could you define that briefly?
Deal flow is investor jargon for investment opportunities
and in our particular case is finding the right types of companies.
Every time we get a little bit of press...
We had some press in VentureBeat
about a year and a half for 2 years ago now
I guess and PandoDaily and Business Insider
and some stuff like that.
Every time we get a little bit of press,
my e-mail inbox is just slammed.
I have ...everybody wants me to look at their business plan
and they range from things that we should be looking at to later stage
stuff that really belongs with an acquisition group
or a private acquirer group, not our type of work.
Early stage stuff that they're raising their first round of capital
which is not our game at all but we know angel groups that are.
My all time favorite in fact is,
this is a couple of years back.
I got an e-mail from a young man who wanted to raise a $100,000
and he was working on this app
and further e-mails,
he hadn't put together much of a plan yet
but he knew he need to raise capital
because his mom wouldn't give him any more money to what he's doing.
He was like 10 years old and you don t wanna discourage those guys
because they might really be doing something cool.
We actually gave him a little bit of an outline and said
"Here's how you put together a presentation to go pitch friends  
and family to raise your capital from your friends and family,"
and a couple of notes back
like this is you want to do it and I've never heard from him again.
I don't know if that was successful or not but yes, we get all kind.
Deal flow's not our problem, for us.
I have half a dozen companies who are stacked up now.
Of course, we pass on to some that we probably would help
if we had instant financial resources available,
the purpose for the venture fund we're raising.
Some of these, they don t really need a lot of money.
That's the other sad part.
We actually get some.
We did won about a year ago.
James and I did.
2 meetings was all it took.
They actually had money left which was kinda cool.
It's so rare for us to see guys that actually have....
These guys had over million dollars left.
This is really cool.
I've never seen that.
It was an engineering group that had built this very innovative product
that was an add-on for Gmail.
They were looking to wind it down and wipe it down.
They end up getting acquired through some kind of a deal with Box.
This application did was sort out attachments on your e-mails.
We talked to them and they had gone on to Freemium model,
which if anybody wants to take notes,
if anybody says Freemium model, kiss of death.
Freemium basically says you build your product
and give away for free
and then you ll sell a premium product for that's almost always $9.95 a month
and people will flock to that when they see the reason for your...
These guys had 400 and some thousand users.
No, more than that.
A lot.
Actually over million.
I might say maybe it was 4 million users.
Their Freemium product and 12 users of the $9.95 a month for that.
What that tells you is that
they got 4 million people who'd say your Freemium product is perfect for my needs.
Cool.
"Why wouldn t you charge them like I don't know, $0.99 a month
or how about $0.99 a year?
Charge them once a year of $0.99?
What would be the difference?
You'd have $4 million.
Everybody will pay you $0.99.
Give it to them for 2 months for free
and tell them it's $0.99 a year after that.
Maybe it ll cost you access to PayPal or Stripe
or one of those guys to clear it. Who cares?
It doesn't really matter.
The point is they're paying for something.
There's one lesson, any time we see Freemium,
we immediately say, "What's the guy's customer base look like?  
And is there some fool there that will pay money?"
It turned out this particular group,
the two largest users were realtors and lawyers,
and who's got more money than God?
Lawyers.
Why wouldn't you charge those guys?
Will they even know if you charged them?
The answer was they'd figure that part out but so they've moved forward.
Somehow their tech got acquired by Box.
Basically for that, we're good friends.
Shake hands with these guys when we see them and that's it.
It was just a simple redirection.
It was just a, "Rethink what you're doing guys."
Not hard.
One of our guys on our team,
his specialty is shredding your business model before your very eyes.
He does it on his whiteboard we have at the other end of this conference room,
he does this a lot.
People would come in when they re not having success
and they ll talk about how they're going to market strategy or succession.
He s got a lot of background on this.
He will quiz you and take every one of your assumptions,
shred it to the point where you're almost in tears.
He's not very mean
but you're almost in tears
because you're thinking about what your brilliant plan was
and how it really won t work
and all those things you did wrong.
He'll take those pieces
and help you assemble a business model that actually might have a chance of success.
When you watch that process happen,
we've done that with a dozen of companies
and they basically have gone forth and implemented that.
If they can do that and don t need cash from us
or anything else from us, that's cool.
We just wish them luck.
It's a fun process.
I know this is a long one an answer to your deal flow question but the...
As far as who's acquiring other group,
Tech-Rx itself as a group, not yet
but some of the individual guys have done a few
and we don t actually talk about the names of the companies that we talked with.
I've never told this story on camera
and probably I will regret this
because it will probably be on YouTube in an hour
but the reason we don t do that is that
it's one thing to tell people that your kids have gone to the doctor.
It's something else to tell them that you went to the doctor for an STD.
We're doctors who are handling very difficult cases of companies that are screwed up.
If you're an investor or you're a company founder
or you're some of their board,
you don t really want people to know that your company is talking to the guys
who are fixing your company because it's screwed up.
We don t talk about the names of the companies.
We will be announcing a couple of deals before the end of the year
but I think we got really sweet acquisitions and their sweet stories.
That make sense.
Thanks for all of your information.
That's actually a really cool idea, what you do I think.
Thank you. / I want thank you for speaking to us.
Nice talking to you. / I enjoyed it.
Thanks.
Best of luck to your project. / Thanks.

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Hi. / Yeah.
I m Steph Lawrence.
I m the co-founder and co-CEO of Traveling Spoon.
So tell me, what does Traveling Spoon do exactly?
Traveling Spoon is an online website
where you can reserve home dining experiences
wherever in the world you might be traveling.
We find and vet the best home cooks around the world
and then we pair them up with travelers to share in-home food experiences.
Everything from sharing a local meal together
that features incredible home cooking
to having a cooking class together
to even a market tour.
Everything is with our local and highly vetted host community.
What gave you and your co-founder the idea to open this kind of company?
Aashi and I are both incredibly passionate travelers.
We ve been traveling for years and years.
We really care about food
and having local food experiences when we travel.
We really came to the idea separately
but through similar shared travel experiences.
For me, I lived in China in 2009
and I had moved there
really to find these kinds of authentic food experiences.
I wanted a local grandmother to teach me how to make dumplings,
but I couldn t find those experiences, try as I might.
I would search and search online,
but when I looked for culinary tourism,
there were, you know, $4,000 wine tours in Italy and France,
but there weren t the kinds of experiences that I wanted
where I could just meet a local person
and learn about the food that they made every day.
It really inspired me to think
why is it so hard to connect with local people
when so often those are the most meaningful travel experiences.
Aashi had a similar travel experience when she was in Mexico
and she really wanted to have an authentic meal.
She passed a local woman seeing her cook in her home
and just realized that that was what she wanted,
not walking to the restaurant that she was walking to.
When we met in business school,
the Haas School of Business in Berkeley, California,
we really bonded immediately over this shared passion for food and travel
and decided to pursue Traveling Spoon together.
As far as your position at Traveling Spoon,
what do you on a day to day basis?
So I m in charge of our business operations
which could be everything from doing our fundraising for our financing round
to taking care of payroll and hiring and legal,
which you know, fun business operations tasks like that.
And then I m also in charge of our direct marketing to consumers.
Our social media
and our creative marketing campaigns are what I ve been working on.
Tell me about some of the ways you market your product?
So you know, we found that with experiences like this,
and with travel in general,
some of the most important things are word of mouth.
You trust your friends and family most for these high quality experiences.
everything from, you know,
where should I stay
to what are the kinds of things that I should do
to even what city should I go to when I m visiting Korea.
We really, we understand that that s what our travelers do
and as travelers ourselves, that s what we depend on.
We try and think creatively about
how do we reach travelers in those places that we re going.
Just to give you an idea of some of the creative things we re doing
to approach those word of mouth organic, organic growth strategies.
We re just about to launch an illustrated food guide.
We ll be featuring different cities
and sharing some of our favorite food recommendations for cities
with the idea that it s something that people can share online
to help get the word out about Traveling Spoon,
but also just to be  
We want to provide value to the travelers that are out there.
Even if it s not directly related to our offerings,
we want to be constantly adding value to the travel space.
Anything that has to do with local authentic cuisine,
we want to be helping travelers to find that.
Can you talk about the demographics of the users that are currently using Traveling Spoon?
Yeah, absolutely.
So our travelers  
One of the things that we realized when we started this business
is that we have a huge demographic of travelers.
Everything from younger travelers who might be just out of college
all the way to older luxury travelers who might be retired.
We find that across those demographics,
so many people are interested in insider authentic experiences.
In fact one of the things that we found when we did our customer research really early on
was that one of the number one complaints that travelers gave us
was when things are too touristy and that was really across the board.
There wasn t a specific age group.
All travelers really felt like  
When something was overly touristy,
they were missing out on some kind of local travel experience.
That being said, our main travelers are probably young professionals 25 to 40
and then also older retired travelers.
We don t have too many travelers
I would say in their mid-40s with younger kids
for instance just because I think
those people aren t traveling quite as frequently to the destinations where we are in Asia.
I have a challenging question perhaps.
In addition to your hosts that are just stay-at-home moms or retirees,
would you also be open to smaller restaurants
that want to get the word out about their restaurant?
Yeah, that s a good question.
Our focus right now is definitely on home dining experiences
partially because we wanted to provide travelers with access to something that was missing.
We really wanted to focus on areas where we could add value.
That being said,
we absolutely are partnering with people who are already doing things.
Just to give you an example...
some of the most incredible  
Just as an example, we know that there is incredible authentic food experiences
that are happening elsewhere in cities,
the local food cart
and the street foods that are happening in some of the markets around the world.
What we re most passionate about
is making sure that our travelers have access to those authentic food experiences.
Absolutely down the line,
we see that we might offer street food tours of
some of these amazing, amazing street food offerings in India for instance.
Maybe that could even be a mom and pop restaurant shop that fits into that tour.
I think as long as it s helping us in the end
of connecting travelers with really meaningful travel experiences
through amazing food, it absolutely could be possible.
All right.
Steph, thanks a lot for talking with us.
Thank you so much. It's a pleasure./I really appreciate it.
Thanks.

So could you introduce yourself?
Uh, my name is Christopher Earl,
and I'm business applications manager here at Roku.
So what does that mean exactly?
What do you do specifically?
Uh, we have a unique environment where there's many applications
that various departments use in our company.
And so we manage the implementation of those applications, the support, uh,
and any kind of ongoing, uh, projects that might relate to them.
Tell me what exactly is Roku?
What kind of services do you provide?
Roku is TV over the Internet, instead of TV through the cable box,
and all the software behind, uh, what runs the channels on there
and uh, a lot of the content that comes from them.
So how would Roku compare to its competitors?
Uh, Roku, it's a very young industry.
Um, there is kind of the old cable companies
that, uh, could compare them to in one fashion, um,
but there is also a lot of the YouTube online channels
that also can be compared to where people are putting up their own content
and broadcasting it over, uh, various kind of Internet channels.
Are there any similarities or differences to other big names like Hulu, Netflix, et cetera, Apple TV?
So, uh, Hulu and Netflix particularly are, uh, types of partners.
We, uh, broad ... or pull their content through our platform, um,
where Apple TV would be more of a competitor.
Um, they actually make the physical devices, um, that kind of compete with us.
And they also have an environment of, uh, channels as well as we do,
which is more robust.
So what are the strengths of Roku compared to Apple TV?
Roku compared to Apple TV, um, one thing they've really championed ...
or we've really championed ourselves on is a easy user interface.
And that's kind of a lot what Apple is known for.
Um, but we also have the most content available both free and subscription, uh,
through our Roku devices.
Great. So, you, you're mainly focused domestically in the United States.
Have you expanded anywhere internationally?
Uh, yes, we currently have, uh, some early expansions
in Canada and the U.K. and, uh, many other places pending
because the Internet goes everywhere.
So what was your educational background and how did that prepare you for working here?
So my educational background is a business degree with the focus
in small business management and entrepreneurship.
And how that's helped me here is, uh, this is a startup environment,
so part of it is you kind of got to learn a lot of general things about business
and be able to wear a lot of hats.
Particularly with business systems, 
uh, recently, there's kind of been a push for software applications 
and applications that help manage businesses.
So, in college, we kind of learned the preliminary elements of what that is.
And, here, we actually get to dive in and learn in detail kind of the family of applications that are most applicable for this business.
Uh, how would you describe the company culture at Roku?
Company culture is very kind of going back to a very startup culture.
Um, if you see something that can get done,
you go ahead and do it.
Um, there's a little bit, as far as formalizing process,
but we kind of don't want to get, uh, burdened down with a lot of the process,
so, if you want to go over and talk the CEO or want to go talk to,
um, anyone else in the warehouse,
um, you kind of have a free realm to go ahead an explore that,
ask questions, thoughts.
So it's very informal, yet we're able to get a lot done.
All right. Well, that's all the questions I have, so thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.

For sure. My name is Ronal Sanchez. I am in the business of electronic commerce.
And we build solutions that work across all devices, uh, for retail companies.
Um. And what is the- what is the name of your company?
The name is Fuse Commerce.
Uh, I think I chose that name because all devices are now coming together, you know?*
Um, and, uh, we ve been doing it for the last year, uh, so far.
Um, just recently, uh, got an office, and, uh, that s, uh, where we re at, so far.
Uh, what is it- Like, ultimately, what is the- the vision or the future way you see your company going?
In what direction? Growing? Mid-size?
I- I envision the company growing to a large scale.
Um, I think that we are taking advantage of, um, the mobile market right now.
You know, everyone now has an iPhone or an Android,
uh, people that didn t even, um, use the internet before.
So I think that we re gonna grow with that.
And can you, like, briefly describe,
uh, what- who- who s your principal- your principal constituency, like your prime target audience?
Well, we are looking to speak to retailers, um, uh, entrepreneurial people, business idea people.
Um, it s not always just retail, but it s also someone that may have a great idea,
and we might wanna get on board with that.
We might wanna build it with them. Um, so  you can say entrepreneurs.
Okay, so, uh, in- in- in your industry, uh,
you- you probably have some, like, bigger competitors, like, some well-known competitors,
uh, that- that fall into sort of the same niche as you, and, uh 
Uh, what- what makes your product different?
What makes you stand apart from those- from your competition?
You know, I think  We support all devices.
That s what makes us different.
Our competition still uses technology from 2 years ago, 3 years ago,
uh, because the people that they have working on these projects haven t had the chance to revamp their skills,
you know, since they ve been working on projects.
And they re still working on projects.
What we do is, from the get-go,
we account for, you know, your tablet, your iPhone, your computer, whether it s Windows or Mac.
I think that s what makes us different from our competitors;
that they are not supporting all devices and we are.
Um. So in- in terms of- in terms of technology, how- what was the process like?
How did you develop your particular product?
What- What goes into it? Developing your product.
Well. Um. There are a lot of different components to this, you know?
Sometimes we have to help a person put a business together from scratch.
Sometimes all they have is, um, equity, you know, um, in another company,
and then they have to find a way to sell merchandise.
You know? Which is what- You know?
And so we can help them build a shop, basically,
and potentially help them market the shop through social media, or even search engine optimization.
Sometimes even magazine ads are required or a party may need to be thrown.
So it- You know, there are so many different aspects to this business.
It s like, the- the- the- the development, the coding part, is one aspect of it, you know,
but then there is the- the business side and the training side
where we have to sometimes train our customers how to run their shop.
You know?
And what- what- what type of technology do you use, typically? Like your day-to-day?
Well, we- we are primarily coders, so we are working with databases,
you know, MySQL, you know, MongoDB, just so many- Protege, um, whatever, you know, it s required, um.
Sometimes we work with PHP,
sometimes we have to work with ASP, sometimes we do, you know, uh, Ruby on Rails.
Um, it just depends on what the day, uh, calls for.
Uh, I- I think that, essentially, we are computer scientists,
where we dabble with it, we play with it,
we break it apart and we know how it functions.
So from that point on, um, you know, just make it work.
So  In terms of promotion, I mean, how do you go about promoting your product, or your service, essentially?
Well, I don t wanna give you my secrets 
But, um, we are active in trade shows 
Um, we set up our, um, tarp and people come to us and we re able to explain to them what we do.
Uh, we call people that we think are maybe interested in our product or service.
Um, and, you know, a lot of it also comes from word of mouth, um, referrals.
Um, other businesses that we ve launched,
um, tell their friend or, you know, other businessmen like themselves, and so we now have, uh, you know 
Uh. Anyway, yeah.
So are there- are there any, par- particular challenges and,
like, sort of tough points in- in- in- in- in the interest of marketing your- your- your product, your service, essentially?
What are- what are the toughest points, the challenges?
Oh, the toughest challenge is speaking to the person that owns the business, you know?
Because if you speak with the business owner and-
and- and you offer them what we have to offer, you know, it s a no-brainer.
If you don t do it, you are losing money. Right?
So that s the toughest part, is getting through that gatekeeper.
Sometimes it s the receptionist or the assistant, you know?
That s the toughest part.
Um. But really, the easiest part is making the sale.
Um, once we talk to the business owner, it- we- we just, you know- It s like I just said, it s a no-brainer.
You know? It s like why won t you-
why wouldn t you target all these people now, um, that are passing your store, you know, on a daily basis?
They could be buying while they re passing by on their iPhones or their tablet, you know?
So that s my selling point.
And that s quite, uh- that s quite, uh, different, how the, uh- As opposed to where things were five years ago.
Oh yeah.
I mean, how do you- how do you think, uh-
Well, I mean, what kind of- of changes do you see, like, in the near future, let s say five years from now?
Oh, I think people are going to, um, be dressing better in the street
because it s gonna be easier to buy stuff in your personal time at home.
You know? I think people are gonna be more- much more selective as to what they buy,
but they re gonna buy a lot more stuff, you know?
Um, and I think that technology s gonna help us, you know, um, sell these products.
You know? Um, basically move the money around.
That s what the technology is helping us do.
Okay. How are you- how are you funded?
Are you bootstrapped or do you have, like, any outside investors?
Well right now, we re self-funded.
Um, you know, I worked in the field for a long time and
that gave me, you know, uh, a little leverage, um, to now start my company.
Uh, 12 years in the game now, and, uh, it- it s about time, um, to, you know, incorporate it.
So, I mean, tell me a little bit about your, like, your personal background.
What- what made you interested in becoming an entrepreneur- a coder first, and then an entrepreneur later.
This could be a long answer.
Okay.
Um. I ll give you the short one.
Okay. Give us the short one.
Um. I ll give you the short one.
Uh, I- I became a coder out of necessity.
Uh, there was so much demand, um, let s say 10 years ago, 9 years ago.
There was so much demand and there weren t enough people, um, to fulfill this demand.
And so I just sort of saw that, and I used Craigslist when I first started, you know?
And I was getting so much work, as a teenager, you know?
Um, and that s how I started.
Um, as far as being an entrepreneur, I-
my mother, um, is also a businesswoman, you know, an entrepreneur. My father is also an entrepreneur.
So I kind of got that mentality from them.
And also I believe that, if, uh- if, uh, you re not busy building your dreams, someone else is gonna hire you to build their dreams.
Um, so that s why.
Um. Uh. Do you have any business role models?
Well there are a lot of people I admire.
I don t know about role models. Uh, business is just business, you know?
Um, but, um, no, I can t- can t- Bill Gates is, you know, a great example.
Question. This might be an odd question,
but what- what- what do you think the most, uh, important qualities a leader should have?
Let s say 2 or 3 qualities that a leader should have.
Perseverance. Open-mindedness.
Uh, you know, you have to be kind to people, you know, and you also have to have a vision.
That s good enough.
Um. Here s an interesting one.
Can- can you- can you describe your first coding experience?
Oh my god 
Very first one.
Oh my god. I think that someone screwed something up and I was just given the task, like,
 Find it. Find- Fix it. You know about computers. 
And, um, I fixed it, you know, I ju- I don t know how many hours I spent, but I fixed it, um,
and this was, um, dealing with html tables.
And, um, oh my god. This is so old-school.
For a person who- who wants to get into your field,
which, you know, initially was- was coding and still is, to a- to some degree,
although you re in more of a leadership function now.
Uh, what- what- what skills or qualities would you say they need to foster to be successful?
You mean coders?
Coders, yes.
Coders have to learn how computers work. From the ground up.
Um  I think that they also have to become fluent in the language that they program in,
and they have to be able to think in those terms.
So they have to practice. A lot.
They have to practice a lot so that these things can just come to them easily  as they become professionals.
Now, um  Now, you know, ev- every entrepreneur, like, on his way to-
to- to really getting started has suffered some major failures or setbacks.
Is there anything that comes to mind as a failure so that you can sort of
warn people coming down the road of any major pitfalls that may be coming?
Yeah. Um. The combination of determination and close-mindedness is very bad, you know?
Um, you have to be determined, but you have to keep your mind open to suggestions and to advice, you know?
Sometimes we feel very passionate about a project or an idea
that we re not listening to the people around us, you know?
Um. That happened to me. That was my first failure.
Um, I went too hard, um, at something that wasn t quite a great idea, you know?
And do you have any last bit of advice for- for any- any,
you know- any startup founders out there or people who at least have the inception of the idea in their mind, uh 
Yeah. Use your network. Use the people that you know.
Talk to them. That s what they re there for.

My name s Christopher Vernale.
Uh, I am the owner, operator of, uh, El Raven Productions.
Um, we are a, uh, production company that deals mostly with,
uh, like, corporations and individuals who wanna put a video element to their business.
Um, I got interested in becoming an entrepreneur- an entrepreneur...-
I became interested in becoming an entrepreneur, uh, because I started off as a photographer and I wanted to,
uh- I wanted to create art, I wanted to create stunning visual elements.
And, uh, in order to make money, uh, it got- I kind of fell, uh, into creating corporate videos.
And, um, you know, there s- there s a- an art that s lacking in a lot of corporate videos,
and, uh, it s something that I felt I could contribute to it.
My ultimate goal and vision is to actually create, uh, narrative stories,
um  My ultimate goal, uh, with my company is- is to basically expand.
To- to bring a- a narrative, uh, visual element to, uh- to my clients and to expand my client base.
Uh, I think- I think originally, the idea of becoming creatively independent was, uh, very appealing to me.
And I think that s still a big drive in, uh- in what I want my company to do.
Because in the end, I don t wanna be kind of held back by clients,
I wanna actually kinda create my own clients, be my own client, be able to create, um, art.
Pain points in the market, er, is, uh, client-based with me.
Um. What my business is is very service-oriented,
so it s very a la carte in terms of, uh, providing clients with, uh, services.
And the pain points, I would say, are mostly budgetary constraints on,
uh- that the clients have in order to make videos, which- as in they don t have that much money to make videos
because they don t understand the importance of what video elements do for their company,
and how, kind of, people are trending more toward, uh, things that they could hear and experience
through social media, through the internet, um, through other, uh, mediums.
Um, I don t think, uh, corporations, companies, uh, have really grasped the idea that,
uh, video is one of the main ways that, uh, the consumer can see them, so, uh, usually they don t take video all that seriously.
Uh, well, my- my principal target audience is,
um - I mean, o- on one hand, uh, you could say the consumer.
Uh, the consumer of whoever kind of buys the goods that my client, uh, or my clients, uh, aim toward. Their demographic.
Uh, in the end, it s mostly people.
Uh, my target is to be empathetic and to show something to- to people and make people feel something.
I mean, it s- When you break it all down, art is kind of like the- the main goal of,
uh- of what I do as a, you know- as a cinematographer, a videographer,
or, uh, in this business of, uh- of- of creating visual elements.
It s, um - The end goal is always as many people as possible.
The point of difference is to kind of separate you from the -
The point of different is- The point of difference is to separate yourself from kind of,
like, the mass amount of people who are creating these video outlets.
I, um- What separates me, I believe, is a, um- I have a very natural artistic eye for certain things.
Uh, a very narrative, um, authentic way of, um- of  storytelling.
So, I mean, I feel- that s what I bring to the table,
and that s what I feel, uh, and that s what my clients feel that I bring to the table.
So I think the- the way to do it is- is, uh, to put in more than just, you know, 8 hours and something, like,
you know, very standard and strict way of telling stories.
It s to bring in a- a level of creativity to it, and the vision to, um- to create under heavy constraints of the product that
the client wants to, uh- wants to portray to the public, and, uh, a way to make it visually stunning for- that
people would actually respond to it.
Not enough. I- I- I am not promoting myself as much as I probably should.
Um, right now, I promote myself mostly through word of mouth, through, like, you know, one client tells another client.
Um. I would say the main way that I promote myself is through relationships.
Um, through talking to people, through meeting people, through, uh, you know -
The needs that certain people have expose me to other people that also might need my services, and so it kind of, like, grows
and grows and grows, as it- just as with any growing company.
It s- You can put your name out there, but it s kind of- it- it s more like a story of  who cares? 
until, um, you have a- a body of work to show, and you become kind of a name within yourself.
I believe my core competency is, uh, an ability to c- uh, to kind of bridge,
uh, a communi- a communications gap between, uh, creative people and, uh, corporate clients.
People of more of a corporate, strict, uh, mentality and way of working with, uh, a creative crowd,
uh, in order to bring them together and to create a- something
that is visually stunning and allows, uh, proper communication of, um, corporate messaging.
I mean, I- I think, you know, to me, like, the- marketing myself is, um -
You know, I want mark- the marketing of myself to be meaningful.
Because I- I- I believe that the- kind of the- the crowd that I m trying to capture, um, goes against traditional marketing ways.
So, like, I mean, I- so I would say, like, i- i- if I wanted my, uh, prefered way of-
I would say my prefered way of marketing is to m- better develop, uh, well, business relationships,
and to, um- instead of just simple, like, you know,
marketing- the- the normal black and white marketing techniques that have become, like, kind of standard today.
Uh,  cause I would say my- my core audience kind of, uh, turns away at what has been done before.
And I wa- I m looking for more innovative ways to market myself.
Um, in five years- uh, in five years, I would like to see myself with, uh, more clients.
I mean, I would- And being a startup company, uh, that, uh, El Raven Productions is, right now, for the five year plan,
the goal would be to create more clients. To kind of allow more word of mouth to spread, to allow, uh,
El Raven to be kind of more synonymous with, uh, quality work, with, uh, you know, heartfelt work, with, um, more artistic,
uh, and cinematic flavor than other production companies could give.
Um, my company culture developed very naturally through just the way my own personality is.
Uh, you know, I consider myself a fairly laid back person.
And the way that a lot of corporate culture,
you know, probably not develops, but what it evolves into is mostly one based on fear.
And a lot of people are afraid.
And a lot of people in stre- The stressful environment of production, um, kind of goes with, uh,
you know, a lot of acting on anger and- and being, um, very rushed, very stressful.
Uh, and usually, I m not naturally like that and I kind of try to move away from that with my crew.
I just try to have a good time, mostly,
but still understand, like, what I do and- and maintain a professional sense of, uh, stability.
But without- wi- with a deeper understanding of creativity
and how to kind of massage that creative part of, um- you know, of a director, of a cinematographer, of even,
you know- of assistants, to- to understand that, like, what we re doing requires - in order to make it authentic,
in order to make it artful -  uh, requires a, uh, almost a sense of love to it.
So, like- and- so to do that under duress is almost impossible,
and it makes my job easier and it makes everybody s experience better if there isn t that idea of fear,
and there is more of a, you know, general good feeling around.
Ok. I would say I m bootstrapped.
I mean, I started from a very small, kind of one man band operation to, uh, a better prepared one man band operation.
I, um - You know, it- When I- when I first started my business,
I was very focused on a, uh, freelance type of mentality where, like, you know, you try to do everything yourself,
and you try to get it all done yourself,
and you try to take as much responsibility away from yourself.
Um, the more I built my company, I realized, uh, the ideas of having overhead and needing a certain amount of capital.
And it s been a very slow process, but it- what it has done for me to be self-made
without outside investors and outside help is allow me to maintain control- a level of control, that, um- that I m comfortable with,
and, uh, that I am in need of no one person, uh, over my own- the direction of my company.
Uh, the market for my services are- is in co- in a constant state of flux.
Um, sometimes there s high demand, sometimes there s low demand.
And it- There s no one thing that stays constant throughout, other than it s going to ch- the weather is always changing.
Um, sometimes digital is better, sometimes people want a sense of, uh, nostalgia with the work,
sometimes they want a sense of fast-paced, sometimes slower-paced.
It- it s always changing and the idea of adaptability is king.
My monetization strategy is to- as a service person is to build the ability
to handle as many clients as possible
while still maintaining a level of quality that I believe is synonymous with El Raven Productions.
Um, my- my company s profitable.
Uh, it s- Usually, the break even point is on a, uh-  
Usually, the break even point is on a case-to-case basis since- with each job is with each different client.
And sometimes it s the same client that you ve worked with before, sometimes it s a different client.
But, uh, usually at- Th- there is a requirement of capital in order to make a shoot possible,
um, that needs to be reached in order to make it happen.
At least from, like- from my company s perspective,
the break even point is that- that level where,
um, if I start bringing in heavy gear and something that s required of other people,
I need a certain amount of money in order to- to reach it.
And- and most 99% of the time, I reach it.
You know, so, like- I- I don t have a specific business role model, um,  cause mostly, most of my role models are artistic.
So it- it- it- it s- I never considered myself an entrepreneur,
I never considered myself a business owner, uh, until I was introduced that way a few times.
Just because dealing with clients, you start dealing with more and more executives,
and you have to explain, like, alright, who are you and what do you do,
and in the end, like, you know, I m the owner of my own company.
And it s not a, um, title that is thrown around commonly in the world that I kind of- and the people that
I kind of uh, uh, associate with, because, uh, it s all art- artistic people and it s all creative people.
So it s all- So the people that I look up to are more creative, uh, instead of business owners.
So it- it s, uh- it- it s a role that I m slowly starting to meld into, but right now,
I- I don t see any one business owner that I look at that I want to be.
I want to kind of be my own.
From my point of view, the biggest failure in my company is the, um, uh- the- the lack of clientele.
And that s not even a failure in a realistic sense, but, uh- but the kind of- the accountability that I hold myself to,
that my company hasn t reached a certain level, in my mind, in a certain amount of time.
Um. Running a company on my own with, uh, you know- a- a production company, especially,
with the ups and downs of the way production and media is, is an incredible undertaking.
And to expect, you know, a- a mass amount of wealth within a short period of time is foolhardy, but I think without that certain drive
that makes me feel that I m- that, you know, I- I fail 90% of the time, um, it- my company would not exist.
Um. My advice to other people who are running startups is to, uh- to never quit.
Um  Through my experience, um, the best piece of advice that I ever heard of when it comes to working on your own,
or making it on your own, uh, or doing anything that s worthwhile is that it s a last man standing, um, life.
It s- i- it s one of those things that- that you either fail miserably or you re successful in a large way.
So, like- and so- and- and if you re successful in a large way, in my opinion,
it means that you can move on to the next day- you- you can live for another day.
You know, you can pay rent another month, you can, uh, buy another piece of gear
or you can buy another- you know, some more office space,
or hire one more person to- to do it.
But you re always- In my opinion, in order to do it right, you re always, like,
on the precipice of either failure or doing great things.
Um, and there s- that type of lifestyle is
very rare for people for a lot of go- the m- the mass amount of people are not able to live that type of life.
They can t handle, uh, a lack of routine, they can t handle a lack of, um -
Most people can t handle the i- i- the insecurity of that type of lifestyle.
So it s - Along the way, there s gonna be a lot of people that say that you can t do it,
and that s only a projection of their own, you know, fear and their own failures, and they drop out.
And the last man standing in that- you know, in your group of friends,
if it s you, then you re gonna be considered the most successful of that group, but it- as an entrepreneur.
And so I thi- I think it- Long story short, in my opinion, my advice would be to never quit.
That it s a last man standing,
um, game, and, uh, as long as you do your due diligence, learn from your mistakes,
and, um- and keep going, that, um- that you ll find what you re looking for.
I mean, I- I think you deal with insecurity of this type of lifestyle simply by adaptation and- and being, uh, adaptive.
All y- I- I learned it- I was lucky enough to be forced into it when I first moved to New York, uh, from college.
Uh, I started off as a freelancer, uh, and through, you know, making relationships,
and dealing with people, and, you know, kind of starting from the bottom in the production world, I was able to learn a lot.
Uh, and I learned very fast, and I was never, uh, satisfied with myself or, with, you know, where the- where my work was going.
So it s constantly that drive to do better, do more, have more, get more.
Uh, that s what s kind of, uh, been, uh- been kind of the driving force.
And the ability to take, um, insecurity- the, like- an insecure lifestyle of, like,
you know, feast and famine, um, that was just practice and living it.
You know, you just- you deal with it, and for- you know, a- as- when- Growing up a- as a single man, it was easy.
And then, you know, getting married and- and moving on with your life and getting older,
you know, it s, um- the fear- it s- uh, it s there in the back of your head somewhere, um, but you just keep moving forward,
and as long as you have that tunnel vision, as I have that tunnel vision where I- like, I- you re just incredibly focused,
um, you know, you just kind of move on.
You know, so I gue- I guess it takes a, uh- a level of, uh, nativete.
That s awesome. Christopher Vernale. Vernale. Christopher Vernale. Coming to you live from New York City.
Cool. That was it?
Making it work.
Nice.

How are you doing? I m Brian August.
I am the senior vice president of business development for SC5.
We re a company based in Helsinki that s now opened an office here in Dumbo in Brooklyn,
and we do high-end HTML5 software design and development.
And we are trying to cater our business towards enterprise development using that sort of technology.
Okay. Here s a little bit of back- Sorry.
Here s a little bit about my background and why I eventually became an entrepreneur.
I think you could probably say it started with my father, who was an aerospace engineer and an entrepreneur himself.
And I was always exposed to, uh, the- the entrepreneurial process,
and, uh, eventually, I went to school and studied music and political science and then went to law school.
And part of the reason I did that was this understand that as an attorney,
you can pretty much do anything you want, from working in a big firm,
to holding out your own shingle, to going into politics, to becoming a judge, or to going into business.
And I found that eventually connected those two things,
which is my understanding of the law and the birth of technology and the New York Silicon Alley scene
in the late  80s and early  90s.
And that kind of gave me the bug not to practice law as much as to,
uh, do business and use my legal background in- in getting involved in numerous startups.
So I was very much involved in the startup scene in New York.
I have several companies that I ve been involved with.
And, uh, that led me eventually to, um, discovering the scene out here in Dumbo, the technology scene,
and connected with a com- this company in Helsinki and became, essentially, their guy in the US,
trying to bridge what they do and bring it over to the United States.
Well, you know, there were several false starts to Silicon Alley, but it was clear that New York,
being the center of finance, the center of, uh, media, the center of advertising in the United States,
that there was going to be an East Coast analog to what was going on at that time in Silicon Valley.
And so, um, it was- at that point, was very- uh, the community was very tight, people knew one another.
It wasn t the way it is now where there s, you know, tens and tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of people in the scene.
This was a small, tight community and there was just the sense that
something very special was happening that eventually was gonna take hold.
And it took a little longer than we thought.
There were a few fits and starts and it probably really didn t get going in earnest till the early 2000s.
So to introduce SC5, we are a team of 80+ developer designers based out of Helsinki who do software design
and development in a- a cutting edge language, platform, whatever you wanna call it, known as HTML5,
which was created in 2008 and has several distinct advantages in what you can do with it that differ from, uh, native apps,
which are apps that are built specifically with the language of the device itself.
So if it s for an iPhone, a native app would use the iOS, uh, operating system
and the language of the iPhone, and if it s Android, it would use the Android development system. HTML5 is a web-based system,
and the advantage to that is when you build something with HTML5, it will work on every device. So it will work on iPhones,
it will work on Android devices, iPads, Windows devices, Blackberries,
because HTML5 is a standard that was adopted by all the different browsers, all of the different device manufacturers,
so that there could be a single way of developing something that would be completely cross-device.
And that s what we specialize in.
So, uh, obviously, the number of devices, the proliferation of device types, of platforms, of browsers is very, uh, confusing.
So there- To say it at the outset, the- the outlook for this industry is- is extremely exciting in the sense
that the mobile device has essentially become the core of almost every way that we do business.
More than the desktop, there s now, I think in 2014 is going to be that inflection point,
where there are more- more mobile devices being used in business then there are lap- than there are desktops.
And so people have also- As the work- as they way work is done has changed and
people now expect to be able to do work wherever they are, whenever they are -
if they re at home, if they re on the road, if they re in a hotel, if they re in a coffee shop -
they expect to be able to conduct their business thoroughly using whatever device they have with them,
which in most cases is going to be a mobile phone, or a laptop, or a tablet.
And so what we do, building HTML5, is very advantageous for that kind of new reality to the way people do business
because now there s something that will work seamlessly across every device,
wherever you are, and hopefully be able to provide functionality that rivals what you expect when you re sitting at your desk,
connected with a high speed connection to, uh, your- you know, your internal communications.
So the vi- the vision for the company is to be essentially at the vanguard, at the forefront,
of sophisticated enterprise development using HTML5.
And that is, more and more businesses are starting to understand that having a fragmented way of doing their company s business-
And I m not just talking about apps that end users are using or customers are using,
I m talking about the fundamental way that a business does what it does.
Connecting deeply to the essential, critical communication tools and databases that they use in their business,
this is something that more and more is going to be connected to every device.
And the vision I see here is to, little by little, um, generate awareness, and acceptance,
uh, and comfort in using HTML5 as a way to accomplish these objectives,
and to eventually, um, get SC5 the same reputation in New York,
and then outward there throughout the United States, that it already, uh, enjoys in Eastern Europe and in, uh, Scandinavia.
Great question. So the ideal- what- what I ve identified as the ideal way of breaking into businesses here,
there are still a lot of businesses - big businesses, banks, insurance companies, financial institutions -
who have been reluctant over the past decade to really take the plunge into having a mobile strategy.
If you follow the banking industry, for instance, you ll know that in the last 2 or 3 years,  going mobile, 
whatever that means, has become, uh, a calling card for all financial institutions.
They have begun to recognize that it s not just a luxury to have mobile- a mobile strategy that s viable, it s a necessity.
And so a lot of these companies have not made really any commitment
into how they are building their mobile strategy and their platforms.
And so for a company like that, that s an ideal opportunity for them to look at the various technologies
and see the advantages that doing this in HTML5 may have, uh, over doing native apps.
And that s very different than a company, say, for the last 5 years that s built a bunch of native apps,
uh, iOS apps and Android apps, and then have a difficult- more difficult time accepting HTML5 as the way to go,
not because it s not a good way to do things but because they ve already committed several years down a different path.
And so they kind of would have to back up and make a turn and go down a different road, as opposed to a company
that s- that s fairly virgin in terms of deciding what the right strategy for them is.
And so part of my objective is to identify customers that are at that point in their evolution
where their- their eyes are open to the necessity of doing something,
but they have not made, uh, a huge commitment to doing it one way or another.
So, um, in terms of the pain points, there- obviously, in s- in selling any product, and in selling a technology product especially,
it s important in- and to us, the methodology that we use is to identify as quickly as we can the pain points of the customer.
I m not trying to force feed something into them that they may not want.
I m trying to engage in a conversation with them and identify the various pain points that they have.
Which may be, uh- like I said, it may be we need to have something that s cost-effective.
So if- if c- if cost is a pain point, then I can make a strong argument that doing something in HTML5 can save them money.
If, uh, acquiring new customers is a pain point, then I can very easily make the argument that HTML5 is shareable in a way-
If you re- if you re using, uh, an HTML5-created, uh, website or web app and you wanna share that with someone,
you simply send them a link, like you do traditionally with sending someone the URL of a page you re on, as opposed to sharing an app,
which requires you- If you don t already know this, if you send someone- uh, if you re in an app and you send someone,
uh, a link to that page you re on, they don t get that page,
they get simply an invitation to go to the iPh- iPh- iTunes store or the Android store and download the app.
So that s a pain point that we can obviate. Uh  I- I think that maybe answers the question.
So the- the principal target audience that I m trying to identify-
uh, we re going through a few different strategies to figure out how exactly we identify that- that principal audience.
Um, and you- originally, it may have been focusing on specific industries.
But now, I think that the- the...- the pain that we re trying to alleviate
and the audience we re trying to target, they exist across every industry.
So it s not simply us saying,  Oh, well, banks are gonna use this, or insurance companies, or media companies. 
Everyone - There s a justification for almost any company using what we do.
So the way for us to identify and target that audience is more about, within that company,
we have a matrix of a bunch of different criteria that we look at, and if those criteria are met,
we might identify that company as a- as a target for us, uh, irrespective of what the business that they re in is.
So it could very easily be- uh, just as easily be a media company or, uh, anything.
So, um, first of all, one of the points of difference is obviously we do thing- we build things in HTML5.
And that is not completely unique, there are a lot of companies that do that.
What we see as a point of difference in what we do, uh, resides in our- in the- in a- in large- to a large extent, the size of our organization
and the degree of experience that we have in doing what we do.
There are no other companies, for example, in Europe that exclusively build in HTML5 and have 80 people doing it.
So it s not simply that because we re big, we re great,
but if we re trying to sell our services to a large corporation in the United States,
it s a very important fact for that company to understand
that whoever s providing this service for them have a continuity that s going to be, um, not in dispute.
So if you are a multi-billion dollar company in the US looking to do a serious, large development project,
you need to know that the company that s doing the work for you is not gonna go away and disappear. If they re building code for you,
if they re doing something that s mission-critical, that 6 months after they re done or a year from now, if you need changes,
if you need maintenance, if you need ongoing support, that you know that that company continues to exist.
And that s a problem with some of these small shops that have 3, 4, 5 guys,
or doing it internally where you don t know if that person s gonna stay on board.
So that s one of the things. And also because- A- another point of difference in what we do is that, um,
we have done hundreds of projects involving HTML5, wherea- our competitors may have done several or dozens.
And with software development, a- a point of difference is that it- it makes a huge difference
if you ve done the something 20 times, or 50 times, or 100 times
because the experience of iterating and building something in, uh, a specific language or using a specific platform over and over and over and over
can be sold as a huge point of difference.
And that s one of the things that we find that gives a great deal of comfort to the clients that we re talking to.
So in terms of developing our project and the technology, uh, to a large extent, this is done through- uh, really through - just over time.
We did not invent HTML5, we did not develop HTML5 as a standard,
but what we did was recognized very early on the potential advantages that this platform-
that this tool was going to have in the market and committed to it.
So back in 2009, um, HTML5 was very new, very few people were doing anything with it,
and we- essentially, it s like the tortoise and the hare analogy.
We decided that this was something that was going to eventually have its day.
It might take 2, 3, 4, 5 years, but we put our heads down
and we said,  We re gonna get a huge amount of experience in this particular way of doing things,
and when the market is ready and people are enlightened to the advantages that it has,
we will be recognized, at that point, as the- as the leaders in doing things this way. 
And so each year, there s been ups and downs, um, but gradually,
the number of, uh, companies accepting this as- as a very strong way of doing business has grown,
and 2014 has been looked at, uh, by several of the most important, uh, prognosticators of this- of trends.
HTML5 is now recognized as one of the strongest, uh, new ways to build these types of applications.
So I am, obviously, uh- I ve been a New Yorker my whole life.
And we made the decision as a company that New York, and in specific, Brooklyn, the Dumbo scene where we re- we re at right now,
is, uh, populated by some of the smartest, uh, developers, design agencies, uh, and small startup companies that exist in New York.
And so I am, little by little, through networking, through using my rolodex, through developing new- new
connections, uh meeting and talking to people who, uh, I believe have these problems that our- that our services solve.
And so, uh, we just finished our first customer, uh, experience here in New York with a small financial business.
I brought over a developer from Helsinki who spent a week here, uh,
and now we re getting a testimonial from
that company and from- from the CEO which I will be able to now use in talking to new people who ask me,
 So what have you done? What have you done in the US?  Uh, and it s- it s- you know, it s a slow, layered process.
This is not a sale cycle that happens in a day or in a week.
Uh, I m lucky to have an executive team back in Finland that understands that and is patient.
And we re building a house of cards. We re slowly, slowly, uh, developing a network of people that are interested in what we do.
And it s also a learning process for me to- to figure out the story and
to really pinpoint it in such a way that, uh, the value proposition of what I m doing is compelling and easy to understand.
Okay. So again, we re- our core competency is very specific.
We make no bones about the fact that we have committed to developing in HTML5.
And I think one of the very strong, uh, ways that you could communicate your core competency is
to not be afraid of sticking to it and addressing what would be an alternative.
For us, uh, our core competency is HTML5; for another company, their core competency is developing native apps.
And I am very open and honest with my potential customers in saying,  Hey, my core competency is HTML5,
and if you, for any of various legitimate reasons, want to develop something in native apps,
uh, I will support that and say,  We re not the right guys for you.  
And in doing so, I feel like that my honesty about what our company s core competency is can eventually come around,
and maybe 6 months from now, or a year from now, or never, but maybe they tell someone else about what our core competency is.
And as a result of that, I generate new business through just being honest about what it is that
I m really good at and what it is that I don t do.
So, uh, that s an interesting question.
The company culture of HTM- of- Sorry. The company culture of SC5 is mostly, almost exclusively, in Finland.
And so I am both adopting myself to the company culture that exists over in Europe,
while at the same time, starting to build the company culture in the United States.
And I can tell you that, uh, there s a- there s a tremendous amount of equality in the company culture as it exists in Helsinki.
There s an open door policy for everyone.
It s just, you know, the CEO is as easy to access as any of the individual developers or anybody else who s in the company.
And so that culture that s created is one of- of communication, of- of honesty, of simplicity, of transparency.
And I try to duplicate that same corporate culture over here in the US.
I m very transparent, I m very easy to talk to, I, uh, am very direct, and that, to me- all of those things are critical,
uh, because the idea for me is to develop relationships that
are solid and create a corporate culture over here that s recognized as honest and authentic.
So the market for our product is huge.
Um, in Helsinki, they re very successful. They,
for instance, have infiltrated the insurance market,
they built the- an HTML5 experience for the first, uh, all-mobile insurance company in Finland,
and it s actually the first insurance company at all in Finland in- in 100 years.
They also have, uh, built the mobile experience for the Finnish national lottery.
So the enterprise market and the fintech, financial technology market, is huge for them over in Europe.
And similarly, I think over here, the markets that I m looking at are, to some extent,
traditional markets such as the media market, healthcare, uh, banking, insurance.
Those- those are 4 that I see as very- very viable, uh, markets for us over here
because those again are old, established companies that are recognizing the need to, uh, go mobile.
And so these are markets that we see as extremely fertile,
and, um, it doesn t hurt that- that the players in these markets are well-established and can afford the kinds of services we provide.
So the monetization strategy that we are implementing, uh, over here is- is fairly simple. We provide services,
and so to some extent, we re- we re simply monetizing our ability to provide timely, effective, affordable, uh, development services.
And that can be done- we can monetize this by, uh, having a flat fee for our work,
uh, we can monetize it by, uh, working on an hourly fee.
We re also very interested in monetizing what we do by productizing our services,
meaning since we ve done certain forms of development over and over and over and over,
when we get a new client, we very often can look at the work that we need to do
and say,  Hey. We built that piece for that- that client 6 months ago.
We did something very similar for that client last year.
We now can take those pieces of technology we built and
monetize them by creating modules that we can license, as opposed to saying to a customer,
 Well, it s gonna take X number of hours, or X number of weeks, or X number of man days, 
we can monetize our services by taking bits and pieces of our work we ve already successfully completed
and taking them as modules, and then essentially stitching them together
and then customizing them with a certain amount of work that we do that s specific to that client.
And for us, that s a very, very lucrative way to monetize what we do.
So we have the advantage in terms of ach- of reaching a break even point where,
uh, I have the ability to leverage the resources that exist already for us across the seas in Helsinki.
So, um, if we have a client that needs work to be done over here,
um, there s the ability to either have some of that work done over in Europe,
or if the customer requires it or we think it s valuable for us, to bring someone over here to do that work, uh, from New York,
or to actually work at the- at the client s location.
And so we see, eventually, the need- we ll need- in order to reach a break even point over here,
we ll need to have some people who are permanently on the ground in the US.
But we have the luxury right now, as we try to reach that break even point,
to be able to grab some resources from Finland and bring those people over here as we move towards, um, breaking even.
So in terms of my biggest failure, it- it s something that s very difficult to do.
I am essentially a team of one in the United States, working with a large team that s thousands of miles away.
And so the thing that I need to do, and that I think, to some extent,
I ve failed at and am looking to improve upon is
how to communicate as seamlessly as possible as I can with my team over in Helsinki.
There s certain things that are unavoidable, like the time difference.
And also the fact that- It s just a reality that basically all of my resources are across the ocean.
And so it s become incumbent upon me, to some extent, to change my hours,
because when it s 9 o clock in the morning in New York,
it s already 3 o clock in the afternoon in Helsinki and they re getting ready to finish their day when I m getting ready to start my day.
So if I need to communicate with my team in Helsinki, I ve gotta know that very often,
that needs to be 7, 8 o clock in the morning, because by the time it s 10 o clock or 11 o clock in the morning in New York,
they re gone for the day.
So in terms of addressing a failure, I ve needed to adapt the way I do business
so that I accommodate my team and the way that they do business across the world.
As far as offering advice to a startup founder,
I think that the- some of the strongest advice I can give you is to trust your vision, to- to believe in what you believe in.
Yes, there s this notion of  pivoting,  and there s certainly,
uh- there is certain credibility in recognizing how you need to adapt to the market forces, or things that you haven t learned.
But I think it s very important to understand, uh, as- as a startup, that this is a marathon,
and that you need to recognize that there s going to be massive ups and downs in anything you do,
and that failing, essentially, is- can often be a sign of strength.
There are many, many, many startups that have failed,
or the entrepreneurs in those startups have failed numerous times before they succeed.
I think that it s very important to recognize that failure, as you might define it, is very often- can be looked at as a strength
because you understand all of the pitfalls that are involved in starting a business.
Startup is a rocky, tumultuous path to take,
and there s no substitute for having gone through these experiences, and to expect it to go smoothly is completely unrealistic.
So there needs to be a very thick skin, there needs to be, uh, obviously, the utmost level of communication with all of your peers.
I think the best startup entrepreneurs know how to treat everyone around them as if they re an equal,
uh, and yet, also know when decisions need to be made that you can step up and make difficult decisions.
So I- I believe in what they re doing,
and I believe that SC5 has latched on to a technology and become masters of that technology.
And I understand also that this is not a technology that s for everyone.
I also understand that there are lots of people who are sceptical about it and I think their scepticism is legitimate.
And I think any good business development person needs to be really- uh, needs to deeply believe in what they re selling.
I think that my- From a personal standpoint,
I think that my enthusiasm and my honesty in believing what we do comes through in everyone that I speak with,
and I ve found more and more and more, um, that if you re gonna try to, uh- if you re gonna try to sell something,
if you re gonna try to sell an idea, if you re gonna try to sell a product, if you re gonna try to sell a service,
as good an actor as you might be,
there is simply no substitute for believing in what you re selling.
And I truly have, uh, looked at this and kicked the tires from every angle over the last several months,
and I am convinced that this market is ready for what we do.
I m convinced that the kinds of services that we provide are, uh, are applicable,
and I m certain that the team that I have in Europe and the team that I m gonna build in the United States are the smartest,
and the most sophisticated,
and- and honest in what we do. And I think that s an unbeatable combination,
and that s one of the things that makes me exciting to get up every morning and go do what I do.
That s awesome. Brian August, coming to you live, Dumbo, Brooklyn, 2014! Thank you!
Thanks. Nice to be here.

Okay. So could you introduce yourself?
Talk about your background and what made you interested in becoming an entrepreneur?
Uh, my name is Dominick Tullo,
and I would say that I ve been very interested in entrepreneurship since a very young age.
Um, I started my own company when I was 16.
I just wasn t making enough money at my job
and it was something that was hugely frustrating to me.
Um, so I acquired this skill in- in selling things on eBay*
and I began to market, you know, around town with just signs
and just selling products, anything I could get, kind of like an online consignment shop.
And, um, started to hit it- hit it nice, got some very consistent clients with, you know, things like gold and platinum.
Um, so I had some good sales with that.
Uh, from that, I went to college, so I stopped doing that and got-
you know, hopped right into the entrepreneurship program.
Um, and then from there, I met, you know, some interesting people like my co-founders and we just,
you know- just took it on, started- started going right at- right at some business.
So, could you brief- uh, briefly introduce your company?
Okay.
Um. So, our company s name is MusicVault and we give our con- our- our users, you know, one place
Okay.
Um. So, our company s name is MusicVault and we give our con- our- our users, you know, one place
where they can search, share, and stream all of their music.
Currently, you know, a lot of people are using YouTube, SoundCloud, Spotify,
and we found that it- it- it s frustrating for these people to manage all of these sources of music, let alone share it.
So if we give you one social platform that provides all of these services,
we found that we can get, you know, much more engagement between users and how they re sharing their music.
Okay. So, could you te- um, tell me what role you play in the company?
So I m the CMO. I am the marketing guy.
Um, a lot of my responsibility is, I would say, you know, creative aspects.
Um, and  creative  goes as far as, you know, idea development,
it goes into user- user interface, user experience, how are the people gonna be going through the website.
On top of that, I m responsible for, you know, getting people to use the website.
Um, and not just so much people to go online and to listen to the music that is,
you know, put onto it, but also, you know, content producers.
So let s say I can get, you know, a famous artist like Tiesto*
or a brand like Urban Outfitters** to, you know, have playlists,
then we can begin to drive much more social features
and we can get our users more- more integrated with- with the music they re listening to.
How did you- How did you develop your product in terms of technology?
Okay, so the concept started with the idea that there s so many different platforms to listen to all this music to,
and these platforms happen to be open sourced.
Which, just as if you can go onto YouTube and type a song on,
there s no reason why you can t go onto a different website connected to YouTube and SoundCloud,
and find the same music, and even combine the 2 sources.
Well, we found out that s actually possible and not that difficult to do.
These websites both have open source APIs* that allow us to- to access all the music that they have.
Okay. And then could you go into, you know, develop- developing it?
So the technology s easy, uh, to acquire, you know?
It s all out there, it s all well-documented by sources like YouTube and SoundCloud.
The challenge is, is to find the right people to build the product in the same light that we think of it.
You know, we- we don t have technical co-founders,
so when hiring a developer to do these types of things, I think that s our biggest challenge,
to make sure they re on the right page as us, and to make sure
that they re understanding the true user experience that we want with a- an impeccable design.
Okay. Um. What are your company s top milestones?
Like a 5 year plan, 10 year plan.
Okay. Um, I would say our company has a few.
A few milestones and they range from, you know, short- to long-term.
Um, the long-term ones, I could go into for forever,
but in the short-term, what we re really looking to do is have,
you know, maybe 10,000 users by the end of 3 months.
And that s something that is hard to put an exact metric on of when exactly you ll have a certain amount of users,
because we re still going through beta stages and we re still even doing a little bit of validation.
Um, but a- a short-term goal is definitely to have,
you know, a sizeable amount of users amongst our community.
That way, we can get, you know, direct feedback on how things are going.
Down the line, we would definitely like to expand. You know, we re- we re a very scalable business.
We would like to expand even further.
Um, this- things like this, uh, you know, require more developers,
adding more people to the team, you know,
having a front-end and a back-end team, you know, some- some- some real- real core 
I would say, down the line, we re looking to have a real core team who can- where we can,
you know, fluently roll out features and things like that that our customers ask for.
Okay. Does your company have any new products or services in the development stage,
or any new features that are- you re gonna think about adding?
Um, we find new things all the time we wanna add.
It s actually really difficult to select the right things.
Um, you know, most recently what we ve found is that
users really want maximum amount of music, minimal amount of effort.
So users don t necessarily always want to create the content they re listening to.
A lot of people just want a radio format.
So our most exciting and newest idea is
if you hear a song you really like on MusicVault, we want you to be able to hover right over
that track and begin a radio station from that song.
And that s made possible through the APIs that we can access.
You know, Spotify already has hundreds and thousands of playlists that,
you know, users have made. All that user-generated content s already out there.
So what right now we wanna see is how can we really harness it and make it most usable for our users.
Cool. Okay, um. What gives your team motivation every day?
So, what really motivates our team is that music is changing.
It s always changing. And we ve seen gradual change over time.
You know, you started off and you had record players.
And that s how music was consumed.
And you know, over time, you know, you go to CDs and then you go into mp3s,
and even myself, when I was, you know, 14 to 15 years old, I had an iTunes library.
I had all of this place where I could store my music, while now, the 14 to 15 year olds
are dependent on YouTube, SoundCloud, a bunch of streaming services.
They don t have that one place that gives them some sense of ownership over their music like I had.
So m- our biggest motivation is to provide that for our target market,
and our target market expands further than just 18 to 22.
We also have a high school segment.
Um, right now, we really just focus on the college segment
because it s- it s- it s the most accessible for us.
But my key motivation- motivational factor is to provide something that- for users to have that I had that they now don t.
Awesome. Um  Could you describe your company culture and how it was developed?
Our company culture is very progressive.
Um, it s a modern style of how we run it.
It really is less of dealing orders, more of taking responsibility.
 What can I do today to maximize our efficiency? 
Awesome. Okay. So what s the market like for your product?
So the music industry is- it s absolutely cutthroat.
If you aren t the best at what you re doing, people aren t interested in using your product.
Our 2 target markets ranging from ages, you know, 14 to 22 are very needy and very particular about what they want.
They re also not willing to pay for anything, so we re working in a very difficult environment.
On top of that, the music industry is changing every single day, you know?
The music industry now is much more of a sprint than a marathon.
You have artists who are putting out, you know, a song a month just to stay relevant,
instead of putting out an album every year and a half.
So the way music is being distributed is changing, the way people are consuming it is changing.
So I would say, you know, the streaming music industry as a whole is changing every single day.
Could you describe one of your business role models?
My biggest public business role model is Eric Ries.
Eric Ries is the author of  The Lean Startup. 
And this really changed the way that we did business amongst our company.
I mean, our 3 co-founders, once reading this book, took a whole different approach on business.
You know, we were going out and for- for I would say 6 months, we were working behind these closed walls.
We weren t going out and talking to our customers to see if this was something that they really wanted.
And Eric portrays this in a way that is so easy to understand,
in a way that you have to go out and talk to your customers, and don t waste people s time.
See if this is something that people even want. Don t assume anything.
So I would say, as a whole,
Eric Ries is definitely a- a good role model for anybody to have if you re looking into the tech startup industry.
Nice. This one s a little weird.
Okay.
Um. Are there any cultural taboos related to business situations in America?
So in American culture, there s certainly taboos in business.
There s certainly things you can do and there s definitely things you cannot do.
It totally depends on the atmosphere, you know?
If you re looking for a job in finance on Wall Street,
you know, you re gonna see guys who are clean-shaved, you know, very, very straight-edge guys,
and where- You know, in the startup world, you re not really gonna find that.
You re gonna find a- a- a ve- a very diverse group of individuals.
I mean, you know, when I m around adults, you have to conduct yourselves much differently,
whereas when I was working in the office I was working in in Brooklyn,
you had guys who had, you know, shirts cut down to here,
and they were just- It s- it s a different- It s a whole different ballgame.
I mean, as far as individual things that you can t get away with, in the startup world, there is not that many.
It s- it s very loose and progressive.
And matter of fact, you re almost even given a level of credibility if you- if you break some of the rules.
So I would say it s very difficult to accustom yourself to the American work culture.
Okay. Do you have any friends who have also founded startups?
Yeah. I mean, we have, um, you know, a couple colleagues which we work with at school.
One- one, uh, with the business Kricket, the other one with Cronk Studios, a- a t-shirt company.
And I would say the coolest thing that- about having friends who are also working with startups
is that they re almost like, you know, the 4th founder, who doesn t have an equity position,
but they re that person you know is gonna be there to help you work, and, you know, vice versa.
So you always have that consulting role when you have a friend who s also doing a startup.
Awesome. Um  Do you have any types of skills that you would like to learn more about?
There s definitely skills that I wish I could acquire, um,
or I wish I already had, such as technical skills.
You know, there s nobody on our team who has the tech background,
who can whip up a feature on a website in, you know, a- a g- a- a short period of time.
So I would say definitely good for anybody to know or just have some tech background,
if not know how to code yourself.
Awesome. Why did you decide to go with a startup versus an established company?
I would say I decided to go with a startup instead of working with an established company
because I m very passionate about the vision of a company,
and I find that I m not one who works well for others, I work well with others.
Um, so I would say I didn t choose to work with an existing company
because I m- I- I like to get more hands on and- and- and kind of form my own vision around a company.
Awesome. That s it, my man.
Cool.

My name is Nate Cooper and I own a company called Simple Labs here in New York City.
What, what do you do?
What s, what s the nature of your company?
What s the nature of the beast?
So, Simple Labs, has recently rebranded.
three years ago I founded, Pedestrian Consulting, and it was mainly a consulting company.
over the past three years, I ve since moved from primarily consulting into, training, and events.
So, with rebranding Simple Labs, I was able to take on additional help.
I now have a couple developers who work with me, who build out projects,
I do classes that I organize myself and then I also teach on the side. So.
So you re- you re the CEO.
Do you have any- do you have any co-founders, like, who are 
For Simple Labs, no. I ve done a number of projects under the brand, and through my company,
where I was kind of partnering on projects.
So there s this, event I started called Reboot Workshop,
which is, a conference and it was co-founded by me and another freelancer, Jim Hopkinson.
So he, he and I started this thing and that s been its sort of separate organization.
He owns his own LLC,* I own my own company,
and then we both collaborate for this one project.
so what- what made you-
What- what- what prompted you, to be, towards entrepreneurship?
Mm hmm. So, yeah, when I- when I went, on my own
and I started my company three years ago,
I d never really worked for myself.
I had worked in universities and, I was working at Apple before.
And, I, sort of, in both situations, worked my way up to, sort of, management or mid-level, organization position,
but it was always within the structure that someone else created.
And, when I left, I had this really strong feeling of wanting to do something that I owned
so that when I do an event, or when I, you know, work with a company,
it s something that I have complete control over.
so that was, I think, the biggest thing because there s no one telling me what to do or the right way of doing it,
and I get to kind of pick and choose the kinds of things I wanna do.
So  Essentially, if you could, like, sum it up in, I dunno, a sentence or two, what product or service-
Mm hmm.
...do you- do you sell? What is your- what s the thrust of your company?
So, mainly what, mainly what we re focused on is the intersection between creativity, entrepreneurship, and technology.
So, the s- the main service that we offer is,  either building out or training on tech products.
So I do a lot of, WordPress* training.
I ll go out to a company and explain how WordPress works.
I ll help them set it up themselves, or maybe,  they set it up and I help them learn how to use it,
and that s kind of the main, sort of, revenue generator.
And then in addition to that, we do a lot of organizing to help other people who are thinking about starting their own business.
So, I have a referral network that I manage where if somebody needs a website,
if they need an accountant, if they need, you know, help with certain aspects of their business,
I- I have people that work with me that will 
- You know, they re- they re- they run their own businesses,
but part of what Simple Labs is doing is providing a referral network for these other types of services that small businesses need.
So in the market, do you have competitors?
Sure, but it s, you know, I mean- it s a pretty broad market at this point,
you know, in terms of what s happening with New York and technology, and specifically technology education,
is that the sky s the limit, you know?
I mean, some of the places I teach are in some ways, you know, I mean, I don t consider them competitors,
but they re doing similar things to what I m doing.
you know, but really, I think it s a-
there s an atmosphere right now in New York where the more people you get involved in technology, the better.
So, What I ve seen is that, you know, the more that there are companies that are providing technology training,
the more- the better everybody does.
and, what I m offering with, you know, kind of specialized WordPress training,
that s not really offered in that exact form elsewhere.
but, you know, the places you can go now, it s kind of amazing.
you know, if you wanna learn basic web design, if you wanna build out a product, there s all these opportunities now,
and I think that probably, you know, we re only seeing just the tip of the iceberg right now,
in terms of what that market can bear.
 Cause there- It s growing and there- there s a demand right now for people to get into technology.
So, schools that provide that need and specialized, kind of, boutique consultancies like mine,
I think, are all gonna benefit from that demand right now.
So what, what- what makes your service stand out from-
I mean, in your opinion, what makes it stand out from your- your competitors?
Mm hmm. Yeah, so, What I m doing, specifically because I have this strong background in WordPress,
is a highly, sort of laser-focused view on it.
You know, a lot of places that are offering help with WordPress or training, they re offering it as an ancillary offering.
You know, there s a lot of places that are offering training on bi- front-end web design, for example,
which is needed when you re building a WordPress site.
A lot of, schools right now in New York City are focused on Ruby on Rails,
as a development platform, which I m not focused on.
So I m kind of in this middle ground in between, you know,
providing a little bit more than what you would get out of a front-end web development class,
but not quite as much as becoming a full-fledged back-end developer.
And, you know, that, I think, is really the strength, is that I speak really well with creative people,
and in New York, there s this huge audience of people with design backgrounds, illustration backgrounds,
you know, that don t wanna become developers,
but they have a need to learn this technology.
So, I think that s really what we re doing well, is that we re just narrowing in on this specific creative market and,
you know, helping them, guiding them to where they need to be.
Without- without giving away too much or any secrets,
does your company have any new, like, sort of, services or products that may-
might be in the development stage right now that you might wanna talk about?
Yeah, that s- that s funny.
when you asked that question, I was thinking about how- I
- I just had a meeting before coming here about- about a product that I m working on.
I ve- I ve actually avoided product for quite a bit in the past three years,
focusing on mainly training and consulting.
But yeah, I m looking at sort of trying to figure out the best way to help these creative people showcase their work,
and I really wanna focus on building a product, that helps them do that.
So it s in the early stages right now,
but I m sort of talking to some people who are helping me flesh out the idea and actually build a prototype.
and then the other thing is that I m actually gonna be building a new,
workshop series where it s gonna be a little more intensive,
but it is something that is meant for small businesses to help build their online presence.
so both of those things are in the works right now, and I m really excited about coming up.
And- and- and- and what s- what measures- what steps do you plan to take to promote this?
The event or the product?
The product.
The product? So this is what s funny, is that I-
I, I already am in contact with a number of people who sort of know this audience.
I mean, one is that I have my own mailing list,
 cause I ve been doing this for three years, so I know this market pretty well.
I kn- I know this audience and I have my own audience.
the other thing is that I m connected with some people who have similar types of audiences.
So just as an example, I have this monthly call with other business owners, from around the US,
and actually, one from Canada.
So, we all- we all get on this call and we kinda talk about where we re at with our businesses,
and, I mentioned this to someone who s on the call and he just was, like, floored.
He s like,  Oh my god, if you build this thing, you know, I would love to promote it to my audience. 
So, you know- you know, it s- er- really early, we haven t built anything yet,
but, like, I- I have some avenues of- of promotion.
I m also pretty well-connected in, kind of, the events and tech community in New York,
so I feel as though if I can get something that s- looks as good as I want it to be,
I know plenty of places that will wanna see something like that.
Okay, so- so, yeah, I mean,
your industry, and technology in general, has changed over, you know, just, say, the past five years.
I mean, how- what kind of changes have you seen?
Mm. Well I mean, you know, when I started just even three years ago,
I had this premise that you know, people would want WordPress training, which, at the time, I- it was just a hunch.
You know, like, I- I- I ve been using WordPress since 2005,
so I ve been using it for a really long time, a lot longer than a lot of people have.
But, you know, even the idea three years ago of, like,
building out basically a services company around WordPress that wasn t just about building a website,
but more about helping people learn how to use it, I think was, you know, probably unheard of.
And in the past three years, I think lots of people had this idea and they- not just for me,
you know, but, I mean, like, I ve met several people who are no longer just thinking about things
in terms of being a web developer and building something for a client,
but also having the client learn how to- to use that software themselves.
So once- once you build something out, you give them the tools that they need,
to kind of complete the process or to- to continually update it.
And, I d say that s- that s a pretty radical change from where we were just even three years ago,
because, you know, the way people saw web development firms, you know,
even small ones like mine, you know, it s- the way they would see us is kind of like,
 Okay, come in, do this project, it s gonna take three months, and then we re done. 
And I don t think that s the nature anymore of how people-
how this industry works, is people want to be able to have some amount of control.
Even non-technical, companies, when they bu- get a website built,
they wanna be able to change the website after the developer leaves.
So, you know, I think that that s really been this thing where the education, of technology has really spread outside of,
you know, this is a developer role and this is a designer role,
to really just be like, this is, you know, technology that we all need to know,
and that this is a common literacy that people need.
So I- I think that that s something that, in my mind, is really a good thing that s happened,
is that more people are getting into it and not feeling like it has to be a specialized job.
And so how do you- how do you see those changes affecting the next five years, like, moving forward?
Well I think, I mean, you know, as I mentioned is,
the demand for develop- more- you know, getting more developers is- is still there and it s growing.
but also, I think, just- the trends I see is that, you know, again, it s not a specialized task anymore.
It s like, you know, I see journalists, I see photographers, you know, needing to learn HTML and CSS skills,
and you need to understand what goes into
building a web app or a web- you know,  building a back-end, piece of software.
You know, it s- it s kind of amazing. I- It s still not- I don t think we re there yet,
but I think in the next five years,
it s, like, absolutely going to be a requirement that you know basic programming, you know what I mean?
and, you know, some of us are fortunate to learn some of it in school,
you know, but I think that s gonna be one of those things where it s- it s no longer-
You know, if you think back to when I was growing up and even when I started college,
and offices didn t have computers on their desk, you know?
Like- like there- there- You d go into an office and there s a phone and maybe there s some typewriters over in the corner.
And then, now it s, like, unheard of that you wouldn t have some sort of technology that you- you use day-to-day.
I think that s gonna happen with programming and web technologies, is that you re gonna see this thing that s like,
 Well, what do you mean you don t know how to make a webpage? 
Like,  What do you mean you don t know how to, like, change something on the website? 
Like, that- that s- that s becoming a demand, you know, for everybody,
so I- I just see that- that actually getting even more so.
So you- you have a team that you work with sometimes. How did you guys meet?
yeah, actually, that s a good question.
So the, the- the two people that I know, one of them actually took a class with me.
So I was teaching at a place, out in Brooklyn, Third Ward.
And, they- this person took the class, he was a really good designer,
and, we just met up after the class and he s like,  I need some extra work. 
And it was clear that he knew his stuff,
he was kind of just brushing up on material.
And, so we just have been working together pretty much ever since.
He- I m not much of a designer, myself.
I mean, I- I often have worked with designers.
I m always on the lookout, you know, so this was kind of a fortunate situation.
And the other person, I met at a coworking space that I work at downtown.
So, you know, if you re not familiar with New York, you know, a coworking space is just- it s astronomical.
And that s really blown up even, you know, in the past three years since-
I happened to start when there was about two or three coworking spaces in New York,
and, been lucky enough to kind of get integrated in that community.
And you go look around now, it s like fifty, one hundred spaces where these,
you know, freelancers, small boutique agencies, you know
people doing everything from marketing to, you know, building are going to these spaces.
So if you re looking to get integrated into a community, or find someone that has a skill set,
you know, that s really the place to go.
You know, so I just happened to meet her randomly,
and it was like,  Oh. You have a very similar skill set. 
Again, she s more design-heavy.
I m like,  That s what I need, you know? So let s- let s work together, 
and it s worked out quite a bit.
She s helping me out with this new workshop,  program I m doing.
So what- what- what- what motivates you?
What gets you out of bed? What- what drives you daily?
Wow. That s a good question.
I must have skipped that question.
Well, I mean, what I really like about running my own business is,
the variety of things I get to do, you know what I mean?
Like, I just came from a lunch with a guy that I met because of this,  StartupBus competition.
you know, before that, I was meeting with Lara, the designer I was just talking about.
And jumping from task to task is something that, like, when I was working in an organization, it was a challenge.
You know, it was like,  I have to do X, Y, or Z and I have to order them in this way. 
But when you re sort of running your own company,
you have the freedom to kind of jump from project to project and have multiple things going.
So, you know, I m working on, I mentioned, a book, you know, and, like, I get to, you know, I m doing book edits
and then I m going to- I just taught a class last night and I have another class this weekend,
and then, you know, meeting with these other people about other projects.
you know, so to me, that s- I just love- I mean, it s been- it s been a labor of love since the beginning, you know?
As long as I have enough fuel, which is the resources, the funding to keep going,
like, I m just gonna keep building stuff.
Like, whether it s a workshop event, or website, or, you know,
whatever it is, like, I really like to do a lot of cool things and work with cool people.
That s- that s what I like doing.
What, Well, you know, if- if you re, you know-
you re sort of managing projects and you have your own, being a CEO of a company,
you- you- you know, often you re called upon to- to manage people.
What- what is your management style like?
Are you a hands-on manager or are you sort of a more, you know, hands-off? Micromanager?
That s a good question.
So- so the StartupBus is this event that I just did, where we had to-
There was me and one other co-conductor.
We had to recruit 30 people to get on a bus and, in 72 hours, build companies.
And, to some extent, these are all people who, you know,
they have day jobs, they run their own companies,
two of them had actually,  exited startups,
so they had, like, fully gone through building a startup from scratch and selling it.
And then suddenly I m thrust into this situation where I have to project manage the- these teams of people.
And so, it s interesting  I would say my management style is- is, it varies, you know,
and I think that what- What I like to do is really try to find out what motivates the individual.
So for some people, they like to be told what to do, you know?
And there s a good friend of mine who was on the bus, you know,
and there was some tension there where- at times, where it was like,
 How do we- how do I get her what she needs? 
You know what I mean?
 And how do- how do I make sure she s getting what she wants out of this experience and building this company? 
Because, you know, a lot of these- on a lot of these teams, they actually- are building companies.
They re actually continuing them.
so even though its meant to be a fun project, it s actually like building a real thing.
And, you know, with her, it s like, maybe it was more a delicate touch, or it s backing off.
With other people, you know, the winners, actually,
It is a competition and it s all of North America is coming to-
to have to sort of prove that they have a viable company in this competition.
And the winners, I kind of pushed a little bit, in terms of getting them to- to think about how they were pitching their product.
 Cause they had the product down, they had the tech down,
but they weren t quite there in terms of the presentation.
And I just said,
 Hey guys, like, if you wanna win this competition, you know,
you should really think about, you know, who- who is the person- the spokesperson for this,
because the way it s going now, it s not communicating.
So even if you have a great thing, nobody knows what it is. 
And so I was a little bit more pushy with them, and they switched up their people and-
you know, this is all to- credit to them, they won.
And they re actually now, you know- I just talked to one of them yesterday, they- they re continuing this as a real product,
so I think the right management style is really just one that understands what motivates people
and gets them to move in the- in the directions that work for them,
rather than having a- a box model where everybody has to fit in the box,
you know what I m saying?
Okay.
Sorry if that was a long answer.
No, that s fine. So  What advice would you give to another- you know, other potential startup...
Mm hmm.
Anybody who wants to start a- a company?
Yeah, any potential startup owners or 
Anybody who wants to start a- a company?
Yeah, any potential startup owners or 
Yeah.
...You know, venture entrepreneurs...
So this is a good question. So, like, I- I m of the mind where I think it s like,
you know, everybody should start a company, on the one hand,
because the sooner I did it, the better.
But on the other hand, I- I feel like a lot of people ask about it who,
you know- a lot of people who have full time jobs wanna get into startups,
and I think they often wanna get into it for the wrong reasons.
And, I think, you know, while it s a good practice for someone to start a business,
and I think it- you learn a lot, and really, there s not a single person on this planet that couldn t learn something,
or at least give it a good shot and have- have something work for them.
I would really question the motives behind why you wanna do it.
You know, because what I see is often people who work full time jobs,
what they re attracted to is not really being an entrepreneur.
What they re attracted to is, the freedom with the time.
You know, they want more- they don t like being at- in the office at 9.
They don t- You know, they don t wanna be told, you know,
they don t wanna have to, like, have a hour lunch break or something,
they wanna, like, work at home in their pajamas.
And it s like, I m not saying that kind of stuff can t happen when you work for yourself,
but the reality is, like, if that s what you re doing it for, it- you re not gonna last, you know what I mean?
 Cause you d- you have to have a drive.
Like, you have to have the mindset to be able to put up with,
you know, the work that goes into, like, running a company, you know?
it- when- when I push back on that, you know, you see it.
You see people just say,  Yeah, you re right,  like, you know.
And so, I think anybody can do it,
but it s just about getting into the right mindset and understanding that as much as there s a lot of freedom and fun,
there s also a lot of challenges and it s not something that is just a walk in the park, you know?
Alright, Nate, can you, can you describe you re- you re- you re very first, like, coding experience?
Oh. Interesting. I remember that question, too.
So, Yeah, I mean, my first job was actually doing web design.
which is kind of insane, because, like,
I can t compare myself even to people who are older than me or have more work experience than me
because in 1997, I- my- my dad was working at a college and he got me a job,
basically, as sort of a part time high school gig.
Which, in  97, I mean, like, this was, like, even really before AOL,* you know, like 
So, like, you know, the- the amount of work that went into that and what- what we had to do, you know,
to build a web page back then, like, there was no- there was no Dreamweaver,** there was no- you know?
It was, like, so weird, so, you know, it was-
To me, it was like really fun because I think just at that age, you re a sponge.
So, like, you know, when I think about how anybody can learn HTML and CSS, I think about me at that age,
where it s like,  Yeah, I m just putting together this page. You know? This needs to be built. I m just gonna build it 
And it wasn t- It never became a thing. It never became an anxiety, you know what I mean?
And I think now that it s more of an established industry, like,
there s this anxiety about it. Like, you know, people build it up, so 
for me, it was, like, always a liberating thing. It s like,
 Oh, look at this! You can just put in this code and, like, it shows up,
and, like, that image shows up where you want it to. 
And, like, you know, and at the time, the web was, like, really evolving, so rapidly, you know,
to see it move from, you know, you know, just being able to do, like, animated .gifs at the time, you know?
Stuff like that, it s  so I ve always seen it as a really liberating experience, like, you re building something, you know?
So that- So that- that- that kinda ties into the next question.
Yeah.
If a person, wants to get into coding 
Yeah.
...They wanna be a developer, you know?
Yeah.
...They wanna be a developer, you know?
what- what kind of skills or characteristics do you think,
you know, they really need to have, or at least foster or cultivate in themselves, or 
Mm. Yeah, I mean, I think that every developer I know who does it professionally and who really loves doing it,
they have this really great sense of, liking to build things. You know?
Like the same way you get excited about a set of Legos as a kid, you know?
And the same way, you know, a painter might get excited about a blank canvas.
You know, I think that in the end, what you are doing when you re writing code is you are building something.
You know, it s the act of creation. So to me, it s a creative-
it s a creative process, so,  yeah.
I mean, I think that if you can make it feel that way and you are a creative person,
you know, that s- that s really the best path.
Because you re not gonna feel motivated if it feels like a job or
if it feels like this, like, thing you have to do, you know what I mean?
It s- You have to make it work for you.
and that innate feeling of, like,  I made this,  is really,  you know, what-
what does it for me, and, I think, a lot of people I know who do it professionally.
You have any role models?
Oh, that was a tough one.
I didn t come up to any- with anything.
so, actually, I mean, there s- there s several, but, like, one thing I thought of-
I mean, obviously, like, ev- probably everybody wants to say Steve Jobs, you know what I mean?
So I m like, okay, so, I wo- I could just go that route and of course say all the things about Steve Jobs.
But, you know, I think that for me, there was, when I first started out,
there was, this guy Tony who runs New Work City, which is a coworking space downtown.
I maybe have to turn this off. Sorry.
But, this guy Tony, he runs New Work City downtown.
And he started New Work City as a coworking space, and it was actually a community before it was a space.
So, you know, when I had first met him, he had all these really great ideas,
and he still does, about, kind of, the way jobs are going and,
you know, how people have to take more ownership over being, entrepreneurs
rather than just seeing themselves as an employee.
Because the- like, the way that jobs are going to work in the future i- are- you know,
you re not gonna have just this skill set you learn and then there s a rainbow,
at the end of the rainbow, you have this job that magically fits all these skills.
It s- it s not like that anymore.
You have to actually build the job you want.
So, Tony was a big motivator for me, and,
you know, I give him a shoutout whenever I can because that s to me, like, where we re going.
You know? Like, you have to take ownership, of where, you know, what you want in life.
So you have any last, you know,
just bit of advice for any future entrepreneurs that might be watching this right now?
Huh. So  Never lose sight of, you know, why you re doing what you re doing.
You know what I mean?
The minute that you re working on something that feels like you don t have a connection to it,
or that it s- it s just work, you know, and not- not that it should always be easy,
but, you know, if- if your heart s not in it anymore or you can t figure out why you re doing it,
then that s the wrong place to be, you know what I mean?
Like, so  to me, that s kind of the key to being an entrepreneur, you know?
I- If you- if you wanna build someone else s dream, like, that s what jobs are for, you know?
Like, you can help- And that- there s nothing wrong with taking a job.
Like, I think it s really great to be-
have the experience of being part of a team and having a common vision, you know what I mean?
So I think that if you re not- If you don t have that,
if your heart s not in it, th- then- and you re not a leader on that,
then you don t need to be running a business.
If that makes sense.

You wanna start off with introducing yourself and your background, and why you became an entrepreneur?
I m Tom Nassr.
Uh, I am an entrepreneurship and philosophy double major from Quinnipiac University.
Uh, I ve always been the entrepreneurial type.
I have very- I have various, uh- various businesses that I ve tried to start throughout my life,
uh, starting in, you know, middle school in 6th or 7th grade and-
and I ve tried a few different things coming up, uh, throughout college.
And now I m- I m working on a business called Kricket.
It s something that I ve always wanted to do, is run my own business,
so I m really- I m really happy that I m finally able to do that.
Can you, uh, tell us about about Quick- uh, about Kricket?
Yeah. Kricket is an anonymous way for neighbors to text each other to please quiet down.
Uh, we felt that there was a huge problem at our university,
in particular, about, uh, off-campus houses having parties or being loud, and-
and the permanent residence of the town,
uh, really disagreed and- and wanted to get people to quiet down without involving the police.
So we created Kricket, which is an anonymous way to- to do just that.
So you sign up with your cell phone number and your address,
uh, and you d be plopped on a map, and if you wanted to tell your neighbor to quiet down,
you would just log on, click on a house, and click  send Kricket, 
and that message would be sent directly to their cell phone.
So we get to have the neighbors remain anonymous
without straining the emergency personnel with- the police, with just needles, uh, noise complaints.
Okay. So do they do that- How do they do that through? What- what- what sort of in- interface do they use?
Yeah, so we started off with a website.
Uh, it s a responsive design website, so we use PHP* on the back-end,
uh, and it s accessible through anything that connects to the internet.
So you can do- use it on a tablet, cellphone, uh, desktop, whatever it is.
Uh, and you can log on through that and it will responsively-
uh, it- it will adjust to the screen size so that you don t have a problem, it doesn t look funny on anything.
Um, and we re working on an iOS app and an Android app right now so that you can, um-
Like, it- it basically takes you through a portal there,
um, directly to the website so that you can access all the same functionality that you would have when you re on a desktop.
Cool. Um  So what s your vision and ultimate goal for the company?
So we started off off-campus, and we re actually making the shift to be on-campus now.
So now we really wanna have dorms and residence halls, people be- being able to, uh,  Kricket each other. 
And the ultimate goal would be to have this platform, uh, in all universities.
And we think we can actually do that. We re going to a few different conferences this,
uh- this summer, and the- the response from university administration has been very positive,
and this is a problem that is on every campus.
So we think that, uh, we really can- can capitalize on that
and grow our business through- through Kricket- uh, Campus Kricket.
Okay. And so I know- I know you ve talked about, you know, the speci- uh, an overview of the problem that you re trying to solve here.
But do you think you can give me some of the specific pain points that you re trying to hit here?
Yeah. So on- on campus, the real pain point is that
the residents  assistants, the RAs, are going to rooms,
um, that don t necessarily need to be attended to.
So it s a waste of their time to go up to a room
because someone s trying to study and someone s playing loud music.
That is, like, very- a very common occurrence.
So the person who s trying to study usually will either call the resident assistant
or they ll overreact and go to the room and start yelling at somebody to turn their music down.
So we- we felt that we can create a medium where there wouldn t have to be this back-and-forth or this tension.
So we re addressing the pain point of
one: uh, residents  assistants wasting their time going to- for noise complaints,
uh, and two: it gives the person trying to study a way to anonymously solve their issue
without feeling like they re the bad guy or without getting anyone in trouble.
Uh, it- it s just relaying a simple message to all the parties involved.
So do you have any competitors in the market?
That- that s an interesting question.
We- we ve been asked that several times now, and to be honest,
we went from whiteboard to our first design in 28 days.
So we didn t do any due diligence in that area.
Um, of late, we ve- we ve been looking and there s really not a product like this for this specific niche.
Um, we use, uh, different APIs* with Google Maps and,
uh, a company called Twilio that- we are able to plug in their APIs
and really create the type of product that we re looking for.
Um, but as far as direct competitors, besides using your RA, calling the police,
or, like, physically walking over to someone and saying,  Hey, please quiet down  
Um, there s not something that does directly what we re doing, no.
Okay. Um, so things that might do it indirectly.
Um, you know, other- other services that might not have been created for it, but people use for that.
What s your point of difference from them to you?
So the- the big service- Our- our biggest competitor when we re doing our,
um- when we re doing our analysis of, you know,
what drives success, key performance indicators, KPI,
um, when- when we look at those,
we re really directly comparing our statistics with the statistics of the system that s already in place.
And what is currently in place is, you know,
they re calling the- the residents  assistants,
they re calling the police,
uh, and the effects of those actions.
So we re trying to figure out what we re doing- Like, when- when our system is in place,
what is the difference in the overall effect of everyone in the system?
Um, so th- those are the metrics that we re really looking at,
is- is key performance indicators of how do we know that our system is being effective.
So how are you- how are you promoting the product right now?
How are you promoting Kricket?
At this point, our promotion s very- very limited.
Uh, we ve entered in a couple different competitions.
One s the business model competition, another one is a hackathon out of New York.
Um, and we ve just entered in these different competitions to try to get some funding and try to,
you know, get- get the ball rolling with that.
But in terms of promotion, direct promotion,
we haven t reached out to any schools, or reached out to communities,
or- or run a commercial, or anything like that.
We really haven t done any traditional forms of marketing that you would expect of a newly launched product.
And that s because the people we re really targeting are more of,
um, connections. Right?
It s not like- it s not like the president of a university is gonna r- see your commercial, uh, on the TV and then say,
 Oh! That s something we could get at our school. 
It s like, we need to network and- and get in contact with that person through a different way.
Um, so traditional marketing is just not the type of thing that we re doing for- for Kricket.
um, what a- what are your company s milestones?
I mean, do you have, like, a 5 year plan, or a 10 year plan, or 
a 1 year plan, since it s a- a new company?
Yeah. Uh, well since- since we really launched in March,
um, we re really looking at the next 6 months as the huge, you know, either make-it-or-break-it point.
So we re looking for specifically over the summer.
So I m graduating, a couple other people on our team are graduating, too.
And the goals for this summer are growth.
Growth, and proof of concept, and stabilization of the markets that we start to take over.
So obviously, we re targeting schools, targeting off-campus.
Um, the other huge variable is apartment complexes.
So, apartment complexes have very similar issues to residence halls.
So coming into the summer, we wanna be able to say,
 Hey, before we even graduate, we re in thr- we re in talks with 3 different colleges. 
Or,  We re talking to at least 1 apartment complex. 
Because then those serve as- as case studies to go to other schools and say,
 Hey, look. We did it at these 3 schools. They love it. They- They re in use. They re adopting it. 
And now we can expand out and say-
 Cause once you have 1, you know, it- it snowballs just like that.
So, um, the goal is to lock down as many schools as possible before we launch, like, fully into this summer,
because then we have, uh, team members full time and we can really dedicate-
dedicate time, money, and effort into the summer and- and expanding out.
So it- towards the end of the summer, um, our- our goal is to have 50 schools signed up,
uh, and be implementing that type of process in their, uh- in their school. So 
So, I mean, going along with that, I know you said summer s gonna be,
uh, some big things happening 
Definitely.
Does Kricket have any, um- anything up their sleeves?
You know, are you- are you guys developing anything- anything new?
Any new product or service to either add on, or so- something completely different?
Yeah, there s- there s a lot of offshoots you can do with technology like this.
Um, in particular, just because it s texting, right?
So texting is a huge new phenomenon that everyone is st- everyone is adopting,
and even the older generations are starting to do things like this.
So with the aspect of being anonymous and having texting abilities, you can do a lot there.
Especially when we start considering people responding to these text messages.
So one of the things that we re really interested in in the future is,
you know, we re- we re dealing with a bunch of college kids on campus. Right?
So what do they love? Pizza, for example.
They- they- they love- they love to eat pizza.
So we could set up a panel on their Kricket page that says when I text the word  pizza 1  to our Kricket phone number,
we can have that auto charge, auto order, and auto deliver a large pepperoni pizza with pineapple to your dorm room.
Uh, and we can- we can set all those aspects up immediately through the website all on the back-end,
and to the user, they re just texting a number, um, that says  pizza. 
And then, you know, half an hour later, they get their pizza.
So that s something that- that we ve thought about and we really wanna pursue in the future,
but those types of texting services, we think we can really empower the user just through their cell phone.
Cool. Um. So I guess, le- le- let s talk more about the start.
Um, how did you meet your co-founders?
We met, um, through school, uh, through my fraternity.
I m- I m in a fraternity, it s a Greek organization, uh, Sigma Phi Epsilon.
And we all just- we met and we decided that we wanted to create a business,
and create something that we were all passionate about,
and really make an impact with the environment that we saw around us.
So we decided to put our heads together and,
you know, we came up with Kricket to address a problem that we have at our university.
And it just so happened that this problem is very applicable-
the solution is very applicable to other schools, too.
So it just started with, you know, 3 friends trying to figure something out and do something fun, and turns into this.
So it- it s been a lot of fun.
Um  Can you describe your company culture and how it was developed from the start?
Company culture is something that we ve been really interested in from the start.
An- and- Because you see these giants like Google, and Apple, and Yahoo, and, you know, a- all these startups  company culture.
They have a dog in the office and a keg in the boardroom.
And that s like - I- It s just something that people aspire to be, right?
So company culture was something that we really wanted to pay attention to from day 1,
in the aspect that we want to all be friends and also do incredible things.
So creating a culture where you re not afraid to say,  Hey, what if we did this? 
and also not afraid to say,  That s stupid. 
You know? You- you need to have that balance.
Because, uh, I mean, for example, I was learning- I- I didn t know design.
I didn t know anything about Illustrator,
I didn t know any technical skill at all when we started this project.
And my designer, I said,  Oh, this is- this is what I want.
This is what I think you should do. 
And my designer complied and, like, made something that I said,
and he was, like, very apprehensive about the design and the direction that we were going.
And this was like a pivotal point in our- in our development of company culture.
And I said, you know,  Cam, if you think that what I m telling you to do is not right, please tell me,
uh, and we can, you know, work it out, and we ll- It ll- it ll just get better.
The- the only thing that can happen if we talk about it is it ll get better.
So he was like,  Yeah, I think you re an idiot
and I think that the design that you re saying is just totally bad. 
Um, and- and I was like,  Great. Well, you know, what do you suggest? 
And he comes back and it s just this beautiful, beautiful design, uh, for everything.
And I, you know- And- and that was, like, day 1 of disagreement, and say,
you know,  This is how I wanna do it. 
And he says,  No, I think we should do it this way. 
Um, and that s something that we continue today, you know?
We have a group text, uh, with the 8 of us.
The 8 team members constantly texting each other saying,  Oh, what if we did this? What if we did that? 
You know, updating on different aspects, uh, that we re working on.
And it s just- it s great that we are all comfortable enough with each other to say,  This is a good idea, 
and- and comfortable enough with each other to say,  This is a really bad idea. 
Because the bad- the bad makes you better.
Uh, and it s the- it s the good ideas that grow and foster from that.
So corporate culture is incredibly important towards any company, not just a startup.
So how- how would you say that that- that leads into, you know, your management style?
Yeah. I- I - We- we are a team, so we look at it like that, is- is we re a team.
I just so happen to be the leader of that team
in the aspect that when it comes to either take- take road A or B,
we ll make that decision together, um, but I will suggest one way.
Uh, if- if my entire team thinks that we should go the other way, like,
by all means, I could be wrong.
And- and I think that s something that is really important for a manager to do, is to say,
you know,  I- I can be wrong.  Everyone s human, right?
So my management style is to discover the next best idea with my team instead of saying,
 Oh, this is the- this is the best idea. 
Um, I look at my role much more as delegation than anything else.
 Cause a lot of the problems with startups is they don t know what the next step is,
and it s not so much accomplishing what- like, finishing the next step, it s just, like, knowing what it is.
Because it- for a lot of people, you just don t know what to do next.
So my role is m- has been much more saying,
 Okay. This is what we need to do next.
Who should do it? Who wants to do it? Who s most qualified to do it? 
So, um, I- I think my role is- is fun in the aspect that I just get to,
you know, hopefully show everyone the right way.
And everyone, you know, agrees and- or disses a- disagrees, and-
and we pursue is as- as need be.
Um, how are you funded?
I mean, like, did you guys- Are you bootstrapped?
Do you have, uh, out- outside investors?
We re completely bootstrapped.
Uh, from day 1, we ve invested our own money.
Um, and I think- A- and that s come from the cofounders.
So, uh, the- the 3 of us invested our own- our own means to start this,
and it says a lot about the company because it s our money and it s, like,
our effort in our- our- you know, our... backing, you know?
I- it s like, how can you expect someone to invest in you if you re not willing to invest in yourself?
And we ve really taken that to heart and, you know, put our money up to- to start, so 
We re not looking for any funding.
Um, we think, we ll actually be profitable by the end of the summer,
and that s something we re really excited about, you know?
Starting off with 1 university and growing like that.
But in terms of raising money or- or funding, it s all been bootstrapped.
All- all from us and, uh, all for under 20 grand. So it s- it s good.
Awesome. Um.
Do you think that- that maybe, um, one of the reasons you guys are pushing so hard to hit that break even point is because it s your own money?
Well the break even point was really nothing 
- For us, it was more of having fun in- in what we wanted to do.
It- it s a coincidence that we re hitting the break even point within 6 months. Right?
So it s like, for our co- for, like- go back to company culture.
It s like, our culture is to have fun in every aspect of the business that we do.
So as long as we re having fun and accomplishing things that we love to do,
all the money and the- the break even, or- or an- any pivots that we have,
that s just the side effect of having fun. For us.
And- and that s how we ve- we ve looked at it.
So, um, it- it s- we re really not far off, and it s just the- a fun little milestone that we hit,
but we have much bigger plans.
Um, it s- what- what does that say about the marketplace?
Well, it s- it s really been about having a product that s really in an emerging market of the ability to anonymous-
It- it s really like another anonymous tool, right?
So we see a lot of things like Whisper or Secret, you know, those, like, types of apps that play on the anonymous feel.
And we re giving that anonymous feel to an institution for a very specific purpose.
Um, so the market generally moves very, very slow.
So we re dealing with, you know, huge institutions and-
and massive amounts of money for schools and everything like that.
So they move really slow
and it s really hard to get them to adopt something like an anonymous, um- an anonymous app.
But because it gives them such a specific ability, they adopt it much quicker.
Um, so this- this market for schools and the market for apartments, they re very different,
but they re still solving the same problem.
And we really haven t done enough, um- enough research in the apartments to really dive into that, technically.
But, uh, the- the school market is big and slow,
but if you give them something that they want, they- they move pretty quickly.
So what s- what s your monetization strategy for, uh- for Kricket?
So we re gonna actually charge per student at each institution.
Uh, and that s something that we have discussed time and time again.
Uh, monetization is a huge question, and-
and even whether to monetize or not to monetize is- is a question just because,
you know, you look at What s App ac- acquisition of, uh, you know, what was it? 19 billion?
But monetization is a question, um,
but for us, it was necessary only because we re graduating and we- we have bills to pay.
Uh, this wasn t something that we could say,
 We re gonna have, you know, a- a billion users in the next 6 months. 
It s- it s not that type of- that type of product.
So we re gonna charge per student at each institution.
That figure has yet to be determined.
Okay.
Um. Can you tell- tell me one of your biggest business role models?
Yeah. Um, his name is Tarek Pertew.
Uh, he is the CEO of a company called Wakefield Media.
And Wakefield was started 
Okay. So- so a few years ago, the- New York City was throwing a startup hiring fair.
And what ended up happening was that New York accidentally let too many startups into the hiring fair.
So they only had spots for 200 and 300 people applied.
And they already told 300 people that they could come.
So then they accidentally sent an email to everyone going to the- to the hiring fair,
and they CCed everyone saying,  Sorry, you can t come. We overbooked. 
Tarek was on that list. And he had experience in throwing events before,
so he said to his friend, you know- you know,  I- I should just throw my own hiring fair. 
So that snowballed into,  I m going to throw my own hiring fair. I m gonna have beer there.
There s gonna be fu- It s gonna be fun.
We re gonna have a money pit. We re gonna have competitions.
It s- it s gonna be a blast. And that grew into, uh, an event called Uncubed,
which is now the world s largest startup hiring fair.
Uh, and they re in everywhere from London to New York, to LA, to e- everywhere.
Um, they re- It s incredible, the- what he s done with that- you know, that one email of opportunity.
And, uh, he s definitely one of- one of my huge role models for, uh- for business. Yeah.
Awesome. Um 
What s been your biggest failure so far, in regards to the company?
With Kricket?
Yeah. ...With anything
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I was gonna say, Kricket s really too young to say that we ve failed at anything yet.
Um, but  I d say with- Uh, my biggest failure was probably an app called Qustir.
And- and that is- That was a very large learning curve for me.
Uh, we started- we started an app called Qustir sophomore year.
Uh, we were trying to create a digital coupon age.
Um,  cause, you know, kids just don t want to clip coupons every Sunday in the Sunday paper.
So we tried to digitize that and- and say that we can give coupons digitally
and you d scan it from your phone.
Um, and that was just such a huge undertaking for no funding, no experience, no network.
Uh, we didn t know where to start.
And that goes back to, you know, my role in the company, it s, like, what the next step is.
All of Qustir was,  What is the next step? 
We just had no idea at all what we were doing and what we should do next.
Uh, and- and, I mean, we reference it all the time, even internally.
Uh, we have- Stan, my co-founder is- is- we reference that all the time.
 Cause we worked together for, uh, the- the Qustir app.
And we just talk about how many things we learned with Qustir
and how it all so much applies to Kricket.
And, you know, it s- it s one process.
It s not like - Starting a company is not finite,
and you don t, like, learn what you need to know in that company in that one company.
It s like- it s a whole process that you- you just go through,
and- and your journey through companies and companies and companies ultimately leads to whatever you re- you re working on now.
And- and for us, it s- it s Kricket.
So, Qustir was definitely a giant failure.
It was bad, but, I mean, we learned from it.

So could you just briefly introduce yourself, tell us about your background? What led you to become an entrepreneur?
Sure.
Well first, I don t like answering to authority, so that makes me want to do my own thing.
I always felt like I could figure stuff out on my own and just do my own thing and make my own path.
Went to school in California, USC, worked at UBS* for a while, and then worked for a large real estate company,
the largest real estate brokerage firm in the country.
And then split off from there to do my own thing with my own team.
So, I took 9 years of experience at a big company in to parlay that into doing my own
basically the exact same thing, just for my own company.
And what s the name of your current company?
URS Capital.
Can you narrow in on precisely what it is that your company does?
Sure. We re basically commercial real estate finance experts.
So we structure debt and equity financial insurance for commercial real estate owners.
So ultimately, where do you see the company going?
Do you see it growing? Do you see it staying the same size? Do you 
I see it definitely growing.
I mean, we ve doubled. It s a very small company, so 
We started with 2 people, now we re 5 people, within 19 months.
So we re going relatively quickly from that perspective.
We re expanding into new offices in about 2 months.
And now, going forward, I see the company probably doubling in size in the next
maybe tripling in size in the next 2 to 3 years.
and then also kind of diverging from just doing the structured aspect of the business to
doing also, participating in the ownership side of the business.
So we ll own commercial real estate as well.
Use all our contacts and kind of bridge the gap between the two disciplines.
So can you describe your principle or your target constituency?
It s kind of complicated.
There are real estate owners and then there are capital providers.
So I have to actually target multiple people that are in different spheres.
The capital providers are very institutional by nature;
they re banks, hedge funds, debt funds, private equity shops,
and then there s also just real estate owners that vary from mom and pops to institutional.
So it kind of is like a hodgepodge mix of
pretty much every type of person and institution, or, small company, large company, etc.
That s the circle of who we do business with on a day-to-day basis.
How we deal with them is very different,
and how we market to them is different.
Do you have any direct competitors in your industry?
Yeah, there s a lot of people that do what we do.
The business itself is very much relationship-driven,
so although there is someone who can potentially do something that I do,
they may not have the same relationship
either with the borrower or with the capital provider to actually be able to get the deal done.
There s a lot of nuance to our business
and there s a lot of being able to apply creativity to a financial structure,
which a lot of people can t do, or a lot of people are good at one aspect or the other,
but, it s somewhat difficult to be able to do both of them together.
So. Some of our competitors are very good at that as well,
but there s so much business to be done and it takes so much time to do one individual deal,
it creates opportunities for someone else to do other business, so.
And so can you describe
Is there something that you offer your constituency of clients that your competitors don t necessarily?
Yeah, me, essentially.
I think it s somewhat of a people business,
so it s about being able to demonstrate your capabilities
and also being able to sell them on your...
on who you are and why they should use you as opposed to someone else.
So again, it s like a lot of relationship.
In promoting your company, your services, do you use any particular, any technology?
We're light on the technology side, but we do...
You know, being a small company, it s
there s a perception that it s very difficult to start something and look good.
I did some research before I left the last company and I actually found out that it was relatively simple to do.
There s a million small companies that have grown to be very large companies,
but they they have targeted business owners like,
small business owners and startup companies that will give you Voice over Internet Protocol* phones,
they ll manage your website, they ll give you Enterprise software** for your email
They will offer you--like, Constant Contact,*** is one. I ve seen those guys on TV.
We don t use them, but we have
We use something similar within our own within our own industry.
And then there are relationship management software programs that we have subscribed to.
And then there s some web-based services that we use as well that are expensive.
They re subscription services and some of them are pretty expensive, like 400, 500 bucks a month.
Some of them are cheaper, they re like 500 dollars a year or something like that.
But to be able to pony up and pay those expenses when you re starting the business,
a lot of people just don t wanna do it.
But having the foresight and knowledge and, in the industry,
I knew we needed those services and we needed to have it done relatively quickly,
so I actually went from Friday being in the old company s office to submitting,
basically extracting myself from that company, and as of Sunday evening,
I was fully operational with all those technologies so that we could start business on Monday.
So, took some planning, but you just gotta make sure that everything s teed up.
Are you the sole founder, or did you have co-founders as well?
I m the sole founder.
I brought someone with me from my old company
and gave him a small piece of equity participation to come with me as an incentive.
But everybody else is, they're all independent contractors, essentially. I m the only decision maker.
Can you describe your company s culture, and 
Well,  You eat what you kill, * is the company culture.
I do everything I can and they re friends of mine,
all these guys who came to work for me are now, at this point, very close with me.
We see each other every day. And it s very loose.
I m very flat in terms of organizational structure. My door s always open.
I pretty much never close my door unless I m on a private conversation or
I just need to have a private conversation with someone else.
I keep the door open so they can come in and hear me on the phone,
and use me as the resource that I am for them.
It s very opportunistic.
We try not to say no immediately to anything.
We wanna get the information, see if there s an opportunity,
and then make an informed decision on whether or not we wanna participate in that particular transaction or business line.
So, the culture is...
We wear a suit every day, for the most part, or something very close to a suit, just to keep up the perception,
because we re working with, sometimes, some very wealthy people and a lot of money,
so we can t be super casual.
We need to be kind of buttoned up and look sharp.
But we re very friendly.
and I think that s part of the culture within the company, is that you need to be, not gregarious,
but you need to be kind of outgoing and very friendly.
So I think that I look for that, and the people that we re hiring and bringing on need to be kind of
a go-getter, for lack of a better word.
But they need to be somewhat self-motivated and very friendly and outgoing.
And I think that those aspects help you in the business;
they re not all you need, but you need to take that, come into our culture,
and work well within the group and leverage the
existing dynamics between the people in the office, and use those to your advantage.
It s working well so far.
What motivates you every day? What gets you going? What s your mantra or your...
You only live once, and nothing is given to you.
I think a lot of people operate under the assumption that
someday, someone s gonna hand them a suitcase full of a shitload of cash.
And in my business, you eat what you kill.
I don t know where my next dollar s coming from, so I have to go find it.
And I think that I embrace that aspect of the business and I embrace that aspect of life the same.
That whatever you want, it s available to you, you just need to figure out how to go attain that,
and spend the time and effort to do so.
Again, nothing s free. Nothing s gonna drop in your lap.
What did you find the most challenging about 
Having the balls to actually do it was the ultimate challenge, I think.
A lot of sleepless nights, because you don t know
You have an idea of how you think things are gonna play out during that initial phase of starting up,
but you don t really know how exactly it s gonna play out,
and if one thing doesn t go right, it could really throw you into the dumpster.
That was probably the biggest challenge. That and just creating a brand.
My business is, historically speaking, has lacked a very polished brand.
There are name brands, but there s not really anything behind the brand itself,
because the companies get so big that it just becomes a bunch of individuals who are operating under a moniker.
Where I m trying to keep the company within a certain manageable size
so that there will be a very distinct brand element associated with it,
and you see that in my business cards that I designed and our website.
It s very simple, very clean. And just the way that we do business.
So what s the market like for commercial real estate right now?
That s a good question. That s a very good question.
The market is, in New York City, for what I do, is extremely robust.
It s never been better, as far as I can tell, and I ve been doing this for, like I said, 10, 15 years.
I think it s largely due to just the demand for people that want to have a presence in New York,
whether it be just living here, or working here, or having a company here.
And that demand is international.
There s a lot of foreign money coming in here,
and what that does--and a lot of foreign people coming in to live in New York City--
just because it s the American dream, I think, has a lot to do with it.
But people come here because of the sense of opportunity and they need some place to live,
so that drives the rents up, that ergo drives property values up,
and because interest rates are so low,
the demand to live here and the rising rents with the low interest rates means that
you can have a lot of transactions taking place where the people can borrow a lot of money relatively inexpensive...
actually, historically, doesn t really get cheaper,
throughout history, than people can borrow in commercial real estate right now.
So there s a lot of transactions happening.
And because there s so much transactions happening,
it was a great time for me to start up. I was very fortuitous.
I planned it as such, to leave the other bigger company as the market was gaining, was about to gain a real big steam,
I left, the market took off, and I reaped the reward for taking the gamble on timing.
I d guessed correctly, essentially.
And because there s so much business going on,
the competitors, there s not enough people to service the amount of business that s happening.
So although there is significant competition, you know,
we would peg ourselves against any one of those competitors
and arguably be equal or better than them on what we do.
So if it s a competitive situation, I embrace that.
I think one of the things I tell my guys is that if anyone ever tells you they already have an existing relationship
or they already have someone they re doing business with, say,
 That s fine. We would love to compete on that. 
Because we welcome competition.
It just illustrates our skill set even better.
So  That answer your question?
Now, what you re doing currently, commercial real estate,
is this in line with your educational background that you studied?
No. I mean, sort of. I studied finance at USC,*
with no real emphasis on real estate, it was more just finance in general.
I d more planned to go, like, investment banking route.
I didn t like a lot of the perception that surrounded investment banking,
and when I got out of college, it was right after September 11th.**
It was the next year. So the job market was in the tank,
so it was, like, September 11th, like, Enron,*** all that stuff that...the dotcom explosion...
So there was a lot of negative factors that impacted the economy,
and so investment banks weren t really hiring a lot of people,
consultings were shutting down.
So I ended up going to work for UBS doing financial services, which was awful,
but it utilized my skill set
I m very good with explaining complicated concepts relatively simply.
So that works well for that industry,
but I didn t believe in the products that we were selling,
and I didn t believe in the actual need to have someone like me, necessarily.
So my heart wasn t in it.
So, I d always wanted to get into real estate, real estate development, and real estate finance,
so I just kind of took some time off
and then jumped into working for the large brokerage shop, doing debt and equity finance.
So it took me a while to get there, but at the end of the day,
I think I was trying to do something different than what I was potentially supposed to do.
It was the path of least resistance, almost, to go into real estate, because of my family history.
And I just wanted to do something slightly different,
and then I ended up just getting into it and, you know, whatever. It works out. I love it.
So do you have any role models? Business role models?
Not really. I mean, it s...
People in real estate, you can ask that question, what do they say? Donald Trump?
Or are they gonna say some really big real estate developers, real estate owners?
I mean, I look up to all those people,
but they don t do exactly what I do, so it s very difficult to pinpoint one of those people.
I look up to individual periods in people s careers.
I look up to certain deals that were done, like Ian Schrager* doing some of his really well done hotels.
I think those are really awesome.
And I look at some new condo developments that are taking place on the West Side,**
where they re hitting home runs.
I look at those people and I say,
 That guy has an eye for catching the market at the right time , so 
There s no real role model that I call and speak with,
but I do look at people and get inspiration from multiple people and what they ve been able to do.
There are a couple guys who do what I do who are well-known,
but I wouldn t say necessarily that they re role models to me because I don t have any direct contact with them.
They re doing things on another level than me. So, maybe one day I ll get there.
And lastly, do you have any last words
for anybody who d be considering doing what you re doing on an entrepreneurial level?
Yeah, I would say, 
make an educated decision on whether or not this is something you really wanna do, because it s gonna be difficult.
And just make sure you re not jumping into something you don t fully understand.
Take your time to plan, and then if you plan it right,
you can do kind of like what I did, where it's much quicker.
You set everything up to happen in a period of days
as opposed to jumping into something that maybe, you re getting in over your skis, as they say.
Or you re biting off more than you can chew.
Just make sure that you have a concerted understanding of
your short-term objectives, mid-term objectives, and long-term objectives,
and as long as you hit those objectives,
like those short-term objectives, then you can start focusing on the mid-term objectives.
But when you start jumping in to doing long-term first, I think it gets people
...it catches people by surprise, how difficult it actually is to get up and running.
But other than that, I would do it. There s no reason to work for anybody else.
That s the way I look at it. But then again, that s my personality in general.

Okay. Hi, my name is Marit. I work here at NOOM, Inc.
I started as support and recruiting, and now I m the director of recruiting.
I went to Wellesley College, originally, and I studied political science and international relations and German.
And then I found my way here through, actually, a friend that I went to school with at Wellesley.
So I just wanted to show you guys around the office and tell you a little bit about our culture here.
We clearly have an office dog.
This is Oggie.
So we make mobile wellness applications,
and so we have a big team of engineers and some designers who are hard at work in here.
And then some other people like me, who do recruiting and support.
It s a really interesting environment that I thought was totally unique.
We have Jane here, who is our company chef, and she cooks for us everyday for lunch.
Clearly we have some brainstorming boards.
Every Friday, we get to take time to work on something
that we think is really important, and then we present here.
And let me show you around the office.
Come on through.
There are some people doing a support rotation.
We try to get some of the engineers involved, along with
designers and basically everybody in the company
so that we can all talk to our users.
And this is where we actually do some work.
A lot of people are in meetings right now,
but we try to all stay in one room so that it s easier to communicate.
No offices.
Okay. So, now I want to tell you a little bit about what NOOM does,
and what all these people that you just saw are actually working on.
So, NOOM is an application for Android phone,
and it s like a personal trainer combined with an exercise logging system and a food logging system.
And it s all rolled into one and made digital for your phone,
so you can carry it around with you.
It gives you suggestions for what to do and also key pieces of information.
And the really cool thing about it is that it uses artificial intelligence
and a lot of engineering behind the information that you enter.
And so everything that you re told and asked to do and the information you re given is very specific to you.
And so it really is like your own personal trainer,
without having to pay the huge costs of the gym
and going to talk to gym owners, managers, all that stuff.
You can just pull out your phone and it s right there.
I think something that we think is important is to make it accessible for all of these people, to have it in your phone,
but also then to educate people about health and wellness as a bigger issue.
Instead of just focusing on weight loss alone or on just healthy eating,
we re trying to really make it a complete package.
So, what I think makes NOOM really unique and valuable
to users, or NOOMers,
as we ve started calling them, is that it really helps its users
by teaching them these key pieces of information, and making it, like I said, very specific to each person.
So you ll find out things that pertain to you.
It facilitates an easier method to track your process and- or your progress,
and also, it really aims to help you make these changes in an easier way.
So, we re growing all the time, so if you think that what I m talking about is interesting,
if you liked the office and the idea of the culture, please, feel free to shoot us an email.
If you re a really talented engineer, or a designer,
or just really want to get involved, we re looking for you.
I promise you. Director of recruiting, telling you to apply.
We re growing all the time
and right now, we re actually, totally, ...oh god  Translating!
We re totally translating the app into Korean so that it s completely native for all Korean users.
So anybody who s in Korea that can t have access to all of the articles
will soon have access to all of the articles,
all of the information, food database, all of it.
So keep a lookout for that, and hopefully,
we will have many more native applications to come
that will be translated into a bunch of different languages for other global users.
So. If you re interested in NOOM, like I said, check us out.
Otherwise, just look in your Android phone and you ll see what we re all about.
So, I m going to tell you a little bit about how NOOM works.
It s like a food logging system with an exercise logging system,
and then paired with a personal trainer so that it s very specific for just you.
It has articles, and goals, and tasks every day that it gives you,
along with a pedometer that's built in to tell you how much you're talking, which is a really cool feature, I think.
And it s geared specifically to you, and we use some artificial intelligence
and it s based off of surveys to find out what type of foods you like;
what things you like to do for exercise;
and then also maybe some areas where you need to learn a little more.
And so, the trainer will give you, daily, a list,
and it will tell you through articles and goals, like a personal trainer would, what types of things you should work on.
So the reason why we think this is a really important area
is not only because there s an obesity epidemic in the U.S.,
but also because wellness and health is such a global issue that
doesn t always get the attention and resources that it deserves.
Because we all need to be really healthy.
So one of the things that NOOM helps
with is it teaches people these key pieces of information that a lot of times they re missing.
And it really helps people who are looking to lose weight,
sometimes huge amounts of weight,
but it also helps people who aren t looking to lose weight,
they just want to eat healthier and pay attention to what they re doing for exercise.
So it really is an application that can apply to a lot of different people in a lot of different places.

Well nice to meet you, I'm, I'm Jonathan.
I'm Shogo, nice to meet you.
Shogo. So Shogo tell me exactly what your company does and just introduce your-yourself as well.
Right, yeah, so our company name is called Remotus and what we do is we work on a remote high-end platform,
Shogo. So Shogo tell me exactly what your company does and just introduce your-yourself as well.
Right, yeah, so our company name is called Remotus and what we do is we work on a remote high-end platform,
so our end goal is that we wanna connect, you know, tech companies or start-ups in the United States,
uh, with like a lot of developers and designer sources, remote talents, uh,
not from, not from just United States, but from all over the world.
I think, you know, when we moved to San Francisco
and when I talked to a lot of start-ups and tech companies around here
is that many companies have difficulties, you know, hiring good developers,
for example, uh, they're very expensive,
usually they can't, you know, compete against the tech giants like Google or Facebook,
and you know, I know that there are many smart people around here doing start-ups,
but they can't just find it, and we wanted to bridge that gap,
and we knew that, you know, if you can tap into remote talent sources, uh, from everywhere, uh, in regard to the geography,
I think, you know, if you can connect these two entities, companies and applicants at a much better rate,
so that's what we try to do.
So how, how do companies go about looking for these developers?
What do they do exactly? What's the process?
Uh-hum, so usually the companies when I talked to a lot of people say,
you know, where, where did you find your core members of the team, for example,
they usually say I get through a referral basis,
uh, so it's like friends of friends, or you  know, families, or ex-co-worker, for example,
and I think that gives a pretty good, you know, sense of, you know, who you're working with,
but at the time you're also limiting yourself, right?
Uh-hum.
but at the time you're also limiting yourself, right?
but at the time you're also limiting yourself, right?
There's only a certain number of friends that are looking for jobs and that can connect, uh,
and otherwise they also look for other, you know, hiring platforms, for example,
it could be ranging from big players like oDesk, for example, uh, or Elance or Guru,
so there are a lot of these kind of platforms, uh,
but then I think they have, each has it's own differences, you know, weaknesses and strengths,
so I think we can find a niche that where we can win against those players as well.
So how would you compare to say Elance or these other ...
Uh-hum.
So how would you compare to say Elance or these other ...
... companies?
So how would you compare to say Elance or these other ...
... companies?
Right, so ...
What do you do differently?
Right, so ...
What do you do differently?
For example like Elance and oDesk they're very big players,
uh, so what happens is that you have a lot of jobs and a lot of applicants, like a lot of, you know, profiles,
and while that's, you know, seems really good, it's in reality in practical matters like it makes it very difficult to find a right talent,
uh, for example, when I use oDesk and Elance to, you know, uh, hire someone for Remotus
I get like 50 emails a day and it just gets hectic after awhile, you, uh, you read all though that.
Some people applicants are just shooting, you know, apply, apply, apply,
and you can't really gauge that, you know, how much are they serious about your company.
Uh, on the other hand, you know, we try to, uh, filter out companies like start-ups, for example.
Some of the lists that we have are from, you know, famous accelerators or incubators,
uh, like Y Combinator or 500 Startups, uh, some of the people that we know,
so we can at least guarantee some kind of quality by these,
uh, pretty cool, you know, start-ups and pretty good gigs so they can, might succeed in the future.
And right now we also do friends of friend base referrals for developers
and we're still in the process of finding the right way to source a difficult person
because we don't want to make it overflowing and,
you know, having all the emails that we send to companies going to junk mail at the end of the day,
so we're right now in the process of working of on that and we just launched the alpha version last week,
so we're still figuring things out.
So when do you see yourself launching, uh, in general?
Right, so we are thinking about doing a little bit of switching things up.
Right now it's mainly, uh, like a job board, so where companies are posting their job descriptions
and then people look at the job board and they, you know, hit, hit apply and put in profiles.
I think what we ultimately want to do is we want to do some kind of an auction system,
uh, for example where companies can bid, um, looking at these developers profiles, like for every week, for example,
might have like five profiles of developers and companies can look at them and say, hey, this guy looks really good.
I'll do want a bid and I want to pay this much maybe, uh,
and this we're thinking about maybe late August or September, as early as September could be potentially,
so right now we're trying to find the right way to source out these good developers where we can get it from
and, you know, have it in a stable supply source as well.
So, um, your platform itself is it web based, mobile based, both?
Mainly it's web based, uh,
but I've been hearing there's a lot of needs that, you know, nowadays a lot of people do look for mobile as well.
As long as we get the web things structure and overall direction straight I think we'll definitely look into expanding to mobile
so we're gonna be iOS or Android as well.
Okay. How did you get involved personally?
Oh, into this business?
Uh-hum.
Yeah, so, you know, I was, I first started my career off as like a business consultant
so I was, you know, in a big strategy consulting firm, uh, in Japan actually
and then I moved back to San Francisco last October
and it was really about meeting the CEO, the founder and CEO, Kiyo,
uh, through our mutual friend and Kiyo is like a serial entrepreneur in Japan.
This is his fourth company.
He sold, you know, a previous company to one of the largest telecoms in Japan,
so we had quite already, and he was like my mentor and friend in this start-up world
and I always knew that I wanted to do start-up, but I was one of those people that say
"hey, I'm interested in your start-up," but never done start-up,
and I think Kiyo made me push, like the last push, said
"hey, join my firm, let's go find a company together,"
and that's how I started this business together and I think it's very exciting
because, you know, this business is, is a lot about operation as well, not just, you know, making a web and it's done,
but it's about sourcing and connecting people together in companies
and I think there's a big challenge and I'm very excited for it.
Now, um, with Kiyo's absence today, uh, Uh, what made him want to start this?
Is it any, any personal?
Yeah.
So, I think ...
The reason Kiyo moved to San Francisco was because,
you know, he was one of the, you know, few successful entrepreneurs in Japan who made an exit, uh,
but I think he wanted to move to the United States and San Francisco particularly
because this is where big things happen,
uh, you know if you start in the United States you can spread out all over the world which is,
I think it's much more difficult to do that in Japan, uh,
and that's one of the reasons he wanted to do United States,
and I think, you know, we want to do multiple businesses in the future,
but when we, when we thought about hey, where we can get all the teams, you know,
where can we assemble a very good team from all over the world
and we just couldn't really think of the right platform that does that today
and I think that itself was inherently the best, like most question that, you know, we wanted to tackle
because we had a problem about how to make a good team and best team from the world
and that's why we wanted to make this platform.
Great, um, what's your business model?
So, our business model right now it's we're not, we're not getting any revenues and we're just starting up.
I think ultimately it will be, you know, revenue source maybe from coming from a success fee, for example.
If a company actually successes to hire, succeeds to hire, you know, a certain applicant,
we might get a percent, like certain percent cut of that, uh, whatever they pay like first year salary,
for example, uh, we might make it a little bit more flexible in payments that vary.
For example, you know, payment by like monthly basis, for example,
because some start-ups having like that kind of cash outflow in the very beginning
can be restrictive to their business operations,
so we're also thinking about various ways that where we can, how we can generate, uh, revenue for our business.
Have you received any investing or?
Uh, right now so our company is still funded by Kiyo,
uh, I think we're one of the fortunate group who have a serial entrepreneur as a co-founder,
uh, and then I think this business once we get certain tractions,
uh, we're learning everyday about ourselves, too, right now,
so now that we did the alpha launch if we can get certain tractions
I think we're looking forward to get some more investments or funding, uh, later this year,
uh, so that we have something to show, uh, to the potential investors in the United States.
So with the, the alpha launch just a couple of weeks ago when, when was the company founded?
The company itself I think legally was founded like last, last December actually,
but I think, uh, then, but we've thinking about what to do
so we had this like list of, you know, all these things that we can do, uh,
but I think we actually started working on this remote hiring or hiring platform idea from March.
And how do you envision the future, uh, like, uh, what would, uh, the goals be for the next couple of years?
I think one goal that we want to make is, you know,
we want this Remotus to be the place where people would go if they want to hire remote talent.
Just like, you know, if I want to connect with friends I'm gonna go to Facebook,
uh, you know, if I want to see someone's profile maybe today, LinkedIn,
but we want it to be something that can be instantaneously matched with that idea of like hiring remotely or,
you know, hiring in general even in, in the long term.
Is it only for developers or are there, would you expand into other career fields?
Yes, uh, we're certainly thinking about expanding to other career fields as well.
Uh, I think the most, you know, expensive forces and most amount of forces tend to be developer today,
in San Francisco especially,
so we started out, just because we can't do everything perfect in the very beginning,
but once we get to, you know, be successful, uh, we may look for other sources of, you know, talents as well.
And are these gonna be American companies looking for American developers or international connecting?
Um, so our basic idea right now is American companies looking for ... I think it's both American and international,
uh, for example, there could be a talented developer in like Kansas, for example,
and not in, you know, California or San Francisco,
but it could be elsewhere, uh, well the, the United Sates is certainly a big country, uh,
but then we're, we're looking at both and even in the future that might be even other,
uh, you know, countries, companies looking for developer person, vice versa.
And this will be for freelancing jobs or just annual contract jobs?
Yeah, so, I think we're still working on that.
Initially we want to do like a full-time, long-term, uh, you know, jobs, uh,
so I think this is also a differentiation between oDesk and Elance,
whereas like oDesk you have a very project based or hourly job,
so you, you know, pay them by the hour.
I think we want to do a little bit more, you know, in a longer term relationship,
uh, as you know, you work as like a core member of the team.
That's where we are focusing on right now,
but we may be flexible depending on how we think, see the demands.
What challenges do you see?
What, uh, are the biggest challenges you might see coming up soon?
I think the biggest challenge for every plat, like hiring platform,
I think this business it comes down to, you know, do you have a good source of developers or talents
and do you have the right connection for the companies
and I think, you know, the web or the auction or whatever is the way you just, you know, present these people,
but I think securing the sources of both companies and, you know, talent side, uh, you, you know, stable,
long-term relationship is probably going to be the challenge.
Okay, well it was nice talking to you about all this and good luck with your future launch.
My pleasure, thank you so much.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.

So, could you introduce yourself?
Yeah. My name is Anupam Pathak and I am the CEO and founder of Lift Labs.
All right and could you explain what is Lift Labs exactly?
So we are a technology company so to, kind of, out of research and development.
That... we were government funded in the beginning and
our whole focus was developing a new technology to help people lift who are experiencing tremors and
tremors are kind of an uncontrollable body motion that's usually caused by some sort of neurological disorder.
So a lot of us know about Parkinson's Disease.
Essential tremor is another very big neurological disorder.
Affects a lot of people and there aren't really a lot of solutions out there
and so we developed a new electromechanical device that could actually help with daily living
and the way it works is that it will actually sense the person's tremor and physically move whatever they are trying to hold so
if like they are trying to eat,
it will physically move the spoon to counter act the tremors so that they can eat independently without spilling.
What made you want to get into this specific topic and subject?
Yeah. Well, my PHD research was in mechanical engineering and I was working on stabilization technology in general
What made you want to get into this specific topic and subject?
Yeah. Well, my PHD research was in mechanical engineering and I was working on stabilization technology in general
and by the time I was kind of getting close to finishing
I started to research a lot more about neurological disorders as an application
and met some of the patients who were, you know, struggling every day
and, you know, decided I really wanted to help and thought this was a really good opportunity
and also use of my skills to develop something that would help somebody, you know and something as basic as their daily activity.
So what, was there a personal connection with someone with Parkinson's or
was it just a generic, general, you know, feeling to help people?
I think it started as a general feeling but then after working on it for a few years
it's definitely become very personal
because there is, you know, a lot of people that have become friends that we kind of met,
you know, through focus groups or
also just through family connections that, you know, I started just getting feedback on what we were doing
but now it's kind of a lot more and I think, you know, I just, right before meeting you,
I was meeting with a friend's dad who has Parkinson's just here
and, you know, just talking about some ideas that we had for, you know, more things that we can do.
So, it's definitely, you know, a lot more meaningful
when there are people behind the technology you're developing.
Are there any other neurological disorders besides Parkinson's that people experience with tremors?
Yeah. There is, I mean, so essential tremor is a big one.
So, in the US, about one million people in the US have Parkinson's.
Essential tremor is something that
we kind of associate, a lot of people, you know, elderly people kind of have trembling hands.
That's typically caused by essential tremor and
the only symptom is that the actual tremor and that is estimated to be as high as ten million in the US.
So it's much more common, and then multiple sclerosis is another, you know, disorder. Yeah.
So this device it's mainly for utensils, eating utensils?
Right now, so we started with eating and that was all kind of based on feedback from, you know, people and support groups
but we are definitely expanding to be used outside of the kitchen.
So, you know, things, when someone gets tremor they,
they have to give up all sorts of things including like hobbies and professions
so we are really interested in handheld tools, make-up applicators, things that, you know, we often take for granted
but when, with tremor that kind of really destroys a lot of these things and makes someone lose independence overall, so.
So what made you, what made you decide to do eating utensils first?
That was just asking.
We just asked them like, what do we want, I mean, I have this technology, what do want me to make
and they all said we want to make a spoon.
I mean, I think that eating, if you lose the ability to feed yourself that's such a like, we kind of, again, like, take it for granted
but it is such a basic thing that we do every single day.
Once you lose that, it's not just the like, losing the ability to do that task
but also the emotional loss of independence and loss of dignity
and once we found, you know, once people kind of lose that then,
you know, depression and sets in and all sorts of other things um, start to suffer.
And so that really, you know, it kind of made sense when, when people said they really wanted to be able to feed themselves.
What's your educational background? Can you talk about that?
Yeah, like where I went to school, or
Where, what you studied and, and how it, yeah.
Okay. Sure. Yeah, I mean I grew up, I grew up here in the Bay area
Where, what you studied and, and how it, yeah.
Okay. Sure. Yeah, I mean I grew up, I grew up here in the Bay area
and went to UC Berkeley for my undergrad in mechanical engineering and then went straight to grad school.
So I went to University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
And I did my Masters and PHD there and then I graduated, came back here and briefly worked for a startup
before the government told me they were going to fund the company.
So, then I kind of switched. Moved into the start-up full time.
How did you go through the process of getting funded by the government?
It was yeah, the government has certain programs that
I should think we're, you know, kind of played out that we're sort of a really good case study for that.
They are a mix between research and commercialization so typically we think that the government often,
like their role is to fund basic science and give these large research grants to universities or institutions.
But they also have programs where they will help transition technologies out of pure R&D into commercialization and so,
in that case, like often times it's a little bit too risky for a venture capitalist or some other investor to put money in there,
so that's where the government has these sorts of programs that they will put some seed money there
and develop the technology to a point where it's either commercially viable or you can get investment from private sources.
Did they approach you first or did you apply?
We approached them.
Did they approach you first or did you apply?
We approached them.
Okay.
So you have to apply. Yeah. It was pretty it's pretty competitive and often times I, like, just in my experience,
Okay.
So you have to apply. Yeah. It was pretty it's pretty competitive and often times I, like, just in my experience,
I see a lot of people out of academia, usually, like you, you will kind of create this sort of research proposal
but then combine it with a business plan and that's kind of the mechanism that they work through.
Have you also received investments from other areas?
We did a small round last year and it was mainly, like, kind of an angel investment round.
But, other than that was mainly the government funding that took us, you know, to this point.
When you were studying, let's say your PHD and so forth, were you planning on becoming an entrepreneur
or was it just something that happened because of this, this problem you wanted to solve.
Yeah. I think that I never was really, you know, planning on just, like, definitely becoming an entrepreneur.
I think what I really was planning was having my own projects and doing,
you know, kind of, I always really liked coming up with ideas and seeing them through, like seeing, making them actually a reality.
Whether that was in a research like environment or, you know, in a start-up,
I think both of those would have made me really happy.
So, it was just a really, you know, this opportunity came up and it was just something I really wanted to do
and I think a lot of times in research especially in academia,
it's a little bit different, like you don't have to see the idea
all the way through to somebody actually buying the product and then you know, developing this business around it.
Often times you know, you come up with the idea and you can show proof of concept
and that is really, that's a really big accomplishment too.
I never had the experience of actually seeing something all the way through
and so this was something I saw as an opportunity to do that.
So tell me about the history of the company.
You know, when you started it and you know, how you got to where you are today.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean it started, I mean the way the government grants work is they do it in phases.
You know, what, when you started it and you know, how you got to where you are today.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean it started, I mean the way the government grants work is they do it in phases.
So we did a phase one and then there is a phase two.
So, phase one is usually just very little, like kind of, seed money to do proof of concept
and it's enough to like, just support you know, one person, maybe two.
So for the first year it was basically me, you know, kind of the cliche working out of a garage
and doing this proof of concept work and getting kind of like this very raw sort of prototype with wires all over the place like,
just to show some results and was able to show some really good results.
So that, along with a compelling business plan, allowed for phase two.
Where I was able to hire other people to join and, so phase two.
Phase one was one year.
Then two years under the phase two grant
and then there was one additional year just kind of product development and then we launched it.
So it was about, you know, three and a half years from, from like idea on a piece of paper to the actual product and being able to sell it.
How many team members do you have?
Right now, we have about nine people who are on the team.
Last year was about three so we kind of grew and then the next year we are planning to grow even more.
So we definitely are, you know, growing the company and doing well.
Tell me about what kind of positions you have and, and what their role is...
Sure.
And also how you developed the technology.
Yeah. I mean it started as, like, almost 100% technical with me, you know, between technicals was business operations.
So we had, it was me and then we had another PHD who is doing kind of more product design
and then the mechanical engineer, he is doing more manufacturing.
You know, those really focus on the product and
as well as working with our patients and users to make sure what we are doing is something that is helpful.
This year we have hired business, kind of business marketing, business operations, marketing type of role.
It's a MBA and then we have several interns, engineering as well as non-technical, some one kind of customer support.
And then we have a full time customer support.
So, in other word, actually selling product you know.
So one of the values with the company too is that we're here to care for people
and that's what we really placed a big emphasis on, you know, full time customer support
and making sure that we are providing really good customer service.
All right. Can you tell me about the product itself?
Yeah.
Can you tell me about the product itself, how it's manufactured, where it is and what's all inside?
Yeah. Sure. So the device basically this is kind of where the main like, you know, brains of the system are.
Inside there is a little, just, kind of a little computer in there.
So there is kind of a motherboard that is doing all the processing and then there is a sensor that will measure the person's motion.
And so those signals from the sensor are going back to the main computer
and it's analyzing those signals and trying to distinguish between unintended motion and intentional motion.
So there is an unintended motion, what it does is it will physically move the attachment in the opposite direction of the tremors.
So, if I moved to the left, it will move this to the right and so you can see, if I turn this on, I'm going to grab the spoon.
So this is normally what the tremor would be like.
Now if I let go and allow the device to work it will, you can see that it's keeping it a lot more stable.
And it works in the left and right as well as up and down direction.
So you can see that the attachment can move in these two directions
and we found that that is, you know, very, that's enough to really help make a big difference for people.
You know, we have patients that, like you saw in the video,
he will, he can't even get the food out of his bowl without spilling but then using this he is able to eat on his own.
So that's kind of a big difference that we are looking for.
How did you get this manufactured?
Yeah, so we are getting this manufactured in California, here
and all of the electronics is, are done you know, they have, you know, Silicon Valley,
there is all sorts of, I mean, historically that is where a lot of the PCB and you know, manufacturing was done.
I think a lot of it's kind of moved out, but still, companies remain here.
Especially with companies like us, where we are small and quality is so important.
So it's very, you know, very useful to be able to just physically drive over to the factory.
See what is going on.
Also, we've built our you know, assembly line ourselves
and that is where our expertise and mechanical and manufacturing engineering comes into play.
So we were actually making sure that all the quality checks are in place and we are putting that there.
Regarding the computer chip inside.
Mmhmm
How, how was that, what was the process of developing that?
Yeah. So that's, again, those you know, my expertise is in electromechanical as well as in controls engineering
and so yeah, we tested I would say almost a hundred different variations of algorithms on,
on that chip to make sure that it's producing you know, good tremor cancellation.
And so there's a lot of, you know, that's where the research, the research grants came into play is.
We did a lot of testing, both on the bench top as well as with patients.
We measured the tremor.
What are the characteristics, like how fast is the tremor? How large is it?
And then, fit these sorts of algorithms to be able to detect that tremor
and respond quick enough to be able to you know, meaningfully assist the person.
Do you have any patents for this product?
Yes. So we have patents and we filed those domestically as well as internationally.
So, we are protected in the E.U., most Asian countries as well as Australia, yeah, and New Zealand.
Great. And where are you currently selling this product and where are you looking to expand to?
Yeah. We are currently selling in the US, those kind of you know, what our decision was to you know, US is such a big market.
We wanted to make sure that, you know, we are understanding the market well.
Yeah. Customers are using the product and we are having good satisfaction.
Everything's very kind of robust and predictable before we spend outward.
We are at the point now where we are happy with the results and we are now starting to talk to people.
So we are looking to expand in the beginning,
some key kind of in the E.U. as well as Japan, South Korea and Australia and New Zealand.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How do you, how do you market this? You have a team or-
So, right now, yeah. We, it's a kind of you know, startup, typical startup sort of marketing.
How do you, how do you market this? You have a team or-
So, right now, yeah. We, it's a kind of you know, startup, typical startup sort of marketing.
We don't have a ton of resources to spend on a large marketing budget so we have to be very careful.
Thankfully for us, this is, you know, there is a very human story to behind the technology
and we have been getting a lot of press just from
we were on national news, national radio in the US print like Wire, Discover Magazine have all done articles on this.
So that is really kind of bringing awareness to the product.
And then, because this came out of research so the medical community as well.
So we have published a medical paper of what we did,
we did clinical trials with the device and technology and published that in a medical journal.
So that also, you know, shows credibility behind the technology.
That we have actually tested this and, and it works and you know, we understand where it's helpful and where it's limitations are.
So I think, just being very transparent about that as well.
Really helps kind of gain some credibility within the medical community too.
Great.
Yeah.
So how do you, how are you distributing the product right now?
Yes. Right now, especially from the beginning it was mainly online sales.
We do have certain hospitals that are ordering so we do also purchase order through different institutions
but um, yeah, right now we started online and now we are just starting to talk with people about you know, distribution agreements.
Okay. What's been the biggest issue, like problem or challenge going through this process?
Yeah. I think there are a lot of challenges obviously, like
as you are developing you know, there is, especially different phases where you are.
So different phases of the company have different types of challenges.
I would say today our biggest challenge is scaling.
So, it's a you know, it's a good problem to have but it's also a challenging problem.
How do you you know, go from, you know,
what are sort of initial production volumes to a higher production volume quickly without sacrificing quality and also controlling costs.
So those are all kind of production issues, manufacturing issues but they are very important issues to the business.
And can you talk about, the price of the product?
Yeah. So we are retailing the device in the US for 295 dollars for kind of an initial kit.
So it includes a stabilizer as well as one attachment and then all the technology is really in the stabilizer so that is where the cost is.
All the other attachments are pretty low cost so we are retailing all of those for under 20 dollars
and we are, this year we are basically focused pretty heavily on developing more attachments for the device.
So, you saw, we talked about things for eating.
We are also looking at things for personal grooming like make-up application, hand tools, tweezers, grippers, things like that
and we all want to make those attachments affordable.
You know, under, we are actually pretty cheap, and then the device itself is really the key to being able to provide that assistance.
Do you have any competitors in the market?
I would say you know, most of our competitors are alternate treatment for those diseases.
So they are you know, drug therapy, surgical treatments.
I think they all play a role for you know, different people
and I think we kind of fit in nicely as another kind of option for people. Yeah.
What is your five year plan?
Well, we are definitely not going to be a one product company so,
you know, especially my personality as well, like I want to keep coming up with more things.
So we are definitely you know, developing a product pipeline.
You know, we want to do as much as we can with this device and make it as useful as we can for many people.
But we also want to be you know, utilizing our growth and our talents to develop more similar technologies that can help in a similar way.
So in the next few years you see yourself developing several other products
or in staying within the same, let's say, topic such as tremors or do you see yourself doing other?
I would say, probably in the medical space, you know, especially you know,
I'm very interested in helping people you know, who, who are seeing kind of a detriment in the quality of life,
whether that is through aging or some sort of age related illness or other sorts, sorts of illnesses.
I think those are all you know, those are things that I think we can definitely help people with
and that's something that I am very interested in developing products for.
Great.
Yeah.
Well, it was nice talking to you.
Yeah.
And this is a really cool product, so.
Yeah.
Congratulations and good luck.
Yeah.
Congratulations and good luck.
Thank you. Thanks so much. It was nice talking to you as well.
Thanks.
Yeah.

Can you introduce yourself?
Sure. My name is Jason Liang, and I'm the director of strategy and operations at Qeexo.
So tell me what exactly do you do?
So that's a good question.
So I actually work very closely with the CEO to first ...
Well, my primary responsibility is managing business development.
And so I help manage a number of accounts here domestically and some accounts overseas,
but my focus is domestic accounts.
I also help out with a variety of operational tasks and so on
such as managing HR things and managing PR and so on and so forth so.
Tell me about your educational background and how that prepared you for this role?
Sure. So I did my undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering
into sort of being able to take my engineering background
and sort of translate that into business know-how was certainly valuable.
And then my MBA definitely helped as well
to better understand how to transition from a career that was strictly finance into a career that was more focused on technology.
Do you guys have any competitors in the market?
Our company. You know, it's interesting.
There are a number of folks who compete with us in the sense that we are both trying to achieve
this goal of adding additional dimensions or improving the user experience of mobile devices.
So, certainly, those folks can be considered competitors.
But, actually, a lot of those folks are, oftentimes,
folks who want to partner with us and folks we want to partner with as well
because there are so many different ways in which you can improve the user experience.
We feel like technology oftentimes sits very nicely with some of those as complementary parts.
And so we often play nice with many folks
who are trying to achieve the same goal that we're trying to achieve.
Great. So what kind of partnerships would you be interested in doing?
Have you thought about that much
or have you had any talks with other companies that are interested in working together?
Sure. So we speak to many companies all the time.
And, you know, I think, for us, there are a number of areas in which we would partner both on the technical side,
as far as around our technology and
how that would fit with other, you know, complementary technologies as well.
In addition, we also speak to content providers.
So we feel that once our technology is out in the market
that there'll be many content providers that will want to work with us to develop their applications and so on.
Tell me more about software implications if you were...
if the operating system would have to implement this right
in order to use the function of, say, copy-and-paste or something like that.
The technology does need to be pre-loaded.
Yeah, the technology needs to be pre-loaded on the device.
Yeah, if that's what you're asking.
Right, Right. So you would have to basically work with ...
Yeah, if that's what you're asking.
Right, Right. So you would have to basically work with ...
directly with a Mac operating system, Android operating systems and things like that
or are there other types of applications that could be used directly with those?
Sure. So, you know, in our current setup, with regards to a mobile device,
certainly, application developers would be able to just use
essentially, would be able to develop their own applications leveraging our technology
which should be pre-loaded into the device.
So we wouldn't necessarily have to work with them directly,
although the partnership would make sense as far as being able to encourage them to adopt our technology.
Has there been any challenges in general in this, you know, venture so far?
There are always ... Yeah, there are challenges every day, I feel.
Specifically, some of the challenges that we
you know, we see quite often are just managing so many different things at the same time.
You know, we have this really small team, so, you know, there are oftentimes competing responsibilities
and so, and competing interests...
and so, oftentimes, we need to prioritize which things are going to ... are the ones that we need to pursue today
and which things we, unfortunately, are going to have to put in the back burner until, you know, some future date.
And so that process can be extremely challenging, definitely.
And so we've managed to develop a good system that we think works,
but, certainly, going through that process was interesting and fun.
Great. Tell me more about the employees. How many employees do you have?
Where are they based, and if you can provide me any information about your company culture?
Sure. We have 10 employees. So there are four of us out here in San Jose and there are six in Pittsburgh.
Our office, our team, is divided into business and then R&D.
So R&D is based down in Pittsburgh because our technology was spun out of Carnegie Mellon.
And then, you know,
headquarters and business development and so on is based here in San Jose, mostly,
because it's just closer to the folks that we would be partnering with or doing business with,
so it makes sense to have the business out here.
As far as company culture goes, we'd like to think we have a pretty good culture.
We're pretty collaborative. Everyone gets along well.
We are incredibly flat. We don't really believe much in hierarchy, and so,
If there are any issues or anything, if any of our employees has anything pressing that they'd like to discuss,
you know, it's really easy to talk to anybody no matter who they are in the company about that issue so.
Great. And how did you guys come to KOTRA?
So we came to KOTRA because we managed to
because our CEO managed to have a relationship
with someone in Korea who managed to help us secure the space.
And so, obviously, since he's Korean, it helped sort of make this possible.
Great. Well, that's all the questions we have. So thanks a lot.
Great.
Great. Well, that's all the questions we have. So thanks a lot.
Great. Well, that's all the questions we have. So thanks a lot.
I appreciate it.
Sure thing.
Thanks.

So, could you introduce yourself?
I'm Neil Collins and I work here at Roku and I'm a financial systems manager.
So what does that mean exactly? What do you do here?
So my scope of responsibility is
to look out for the well being of our ERP; it's an enterprise resource planning tool.
It's where we run all of our financials on.
It has all of our inventory, all of our order management data and all of our accounting as well is in that.
So what was your educational background, and how did that come to here?
So, I have a master's in business administration
and I had some experience with computers growing up as many of us have.
in putting the two together I found a niche within Silicon Valley of working on these information systems
that have allowed me to find a career and brought me to this point.
Great. So, tell me a little bit about the company, you know,
what do you know about it, and what do you provide?
So, what we provide in terms of a product is a Roku streaming box,
it's a little device that connects to your television and the internet
and it allows you to stream all sorts of different channels like
ESPN or Time Warner Cable or Hulu or Amazon or Crackle and so on and so forth.
So you can watch TV but through the internet
rather than through a typical cable provider that we would have here in the US.
So, who are the top competitors and how would you compare to them?
The top competitors would be Apple TV, Google Chrome--or Chromecast--and, who else is out there?
Amazon Fire has a product that s also comparable.
And I would say that in terms of how we compare, Apple is the largest product
or has the most market share within our industry.
However, and another metric, if you look at the the metric of our streamed
basically how much time has been spent watching it, then we're leading that category.
So we're the number one streaming player device in the industry.
What are the reasons that the CEO of Roku decided to open this company?
Was there any specific pain points in that market that needed to be solved?
Yeah, so I mean what I think he saw is an opportunity
is the impact of the internet on traditional industries is specifically around TV.
So as we're in a very explosive growth phase of technology today in 2014.
The internet is changing how we all live and how we breathe, how we communicate,
whether it be moving to cellphones, away from telephones or online banking, that sort of thing.
And so the internet is really changing the landscape of technologies within industries and, specific to television
we're seeing a movement away from cable
we're seeing a movement away from broadcasting like over the air and through antennas
And it's all becoming content delivered through the internet.
And so that s what our CEO Anthony saw, was there was an opportunity that streaming television is going to be the wave of the future.
And he's been developing products to position his company within that opportunity.
And what do you see as the future for this industry?
Do you see it changing a lot, or gradually, or what do you see?
It's evolving very rapidly.
It will continue to evolve rapidly over the coming years.
It's hard to say how quickly that evolution will slow down.
But it will probably speed up more before it slows down.
So, we're just starting to see content deals signed that are changing the way that content has been provided in the past.
You think about cable, you think about bundling of channels where, say, you want one channel, ESPN or ABC
you actually have to purchase the whole bundle of a collection of 30 or 40 channels in the traditional cable environment.
We're seeing those content deals rewritten now today
which is the first step of really kinda pulling apart traditional media
and bundling it in the way it would be delivered with streaming technologies.
As far as the company itself, how big is the company?
Do you know how many employees are here and all that?
Yeah, there are about 250 employees, give or take, and it's growing very quickly.
And where are you all located?
So, the majority of the employees are here in Saratoga, California.
There are also employees in LA, New York, Austin--Texas.
Okay and this is the main headquarters right here in Saratoga?
Yeah, this is the corporate headquarters.
Do you know the background of why it's called Roku?
Roku, from what I understand in the fable that I've heard, is Roku means six in Japanese
and this is the sixth company that the founders started.
Oh, great.
So what are the strengths that Roku provides compared to its competitors?
So Roku has two strengths in the marketplace.
The first being its ease of use.
The user interface, when you go to use it and try to find content, it's really unmatched by any of the competitive products.
And then the second strength that Roku has is its breadth of content that it can offer.
So with over a thousand content partners or channels you might say,
there's more you can watch on Roku than on any other device.
In fact one of our slogans is,
"You could watch a movie a day for 87 years and not exhaust the content on Roku."
So what made you want to start working in this kind of a company?
So, for me personally I like quickly growing companies.
I like to be part of the excitement of where everything you're doing has never been done in that specific environment before.
So there's a lot of opportunity for growth.
There's a lot of opportunity to
kind of identify needs and then come up with solutions and implement them and move very quickly.
Build teams, work all across the organizations,
so the real opportunity for me is just the opportunity to be part of something that s evolving and changing very rapidly.
I was coming from, well, one of my first jobs was working at a bank, which is a completely different experience.
That s a very mature organization.
A lot of rules, there's a lot of process and very
Everything you do has been very defined and it's been done a certain way for a number of years.
The start-up environment like we have here at Roku is,
there's very little oversight of to what you're doing at a day-to-day basis
and a lot of importance that you get what you're committing to doing done.
And then, within that context, you have a lot of freedom to do what you need to do,
when you want to do it, however you want to do it.
So is Roku looking to merge or be acquired by Apple or Google?
Or they're just to be separate?
So, I don't believe that there's an ambition to be purchased from the Roku's perspective.
But the possibility of being bought out or being acquired by another company is very real.
I'm sure there are a number of companies out there similar to an Apple that would want to buy a company like Roku.
I don't know that Apple specifically would want to buy Roku, for some technology reasons
they already have the hardware, the devices.
They have their own content partners.
So there'd be an overlap there that may not make strategic sense in the long term.
A company like Samsung might be a more realistic candidate because they are
they don't have a device in the marketplace.
Without the device they don't have any of the content relationships which are really key to this industry.
So, sure there are some companies out there that are probably looking at Roku in a very positive fashion.
Thinking this would be a great acquisition, but at this point, from what I understand
Roku wants to continue being their own independently-owned company
and with their own destination ahead of them, so to speak.
Okay. And why is it that Roku is able to provide more channels than these other competitors?
Aggressive content acquisition.
So there's a team that is highly dedicated
and highly productive in going and creating these content partnerships and bringing more content to the platform literally everyday.
All right, that s all the questions I have, so thank you very much, I appreciate it.
Cool. Thank you.
All right, that s all the questions I have, so thank you very much, I appreciate it.
Cool. Thank you.
Thanks.

So if you could introduce yourself and just talk a little bit about how you started the company.
Okay.  I'm JR Rivers, one of the co-founders and the CEO of Cumulus Networks.
I've been in the networking industry for a very long time starting with
very early days of ethernet through hardware switching and routing and those types of technologies.
I spend most of my time at Cisco in the networking industry and
did a little stint in the middle there at Google
and I watched how data centers, especially large-scale modern data centers, were transforming the way companies do business.
The way applications get written, the way customers want to deploy applications at scale.
And as I went back into Cisco
I was looking in the industry waiting for someone to do for the world what Google had done for themselves.
You know, they build all their own networking equipment these days.
And I realized no, nobody was doing that.
And so Cumulus is kind of for me the manifestation of that.
It's how you make high capacity networks affordable and easy to deploy
so that people can make better use of their computational power to build ya know,
to apply it more towards the business and less towards ya know, networking efficiencies.
What made you want to start your own company?
You, I don't know. That's an interesting question.
You, it's not so much that you want to start your own company, it's that you have an idea and there's nobody else doing it
and so you end up having to start your own company in order to realize that vision or that perspective.
Ya know, the idea that for Cumulus I had floated it when I was at Cisco
and no one was interested in it because it, ya know, detracts from margins for them.
It takes away a lot of what Cisco would perceive to be its value add and puts it in the hands of in points and other applications and,
and so it does, Cumulus as a business never made sense for a company like Cisco.
And so you end up having to start the business to realize the vision.
What would you say your strong points are at Cumulus compared to other companies and what are your solutions?
Yeah.  I think our strongest point is to recognize that
when you, when you look at the, the networking industry today,
it's a lot of the components, the hardware components and the software components are reasonably mature.
And, ya know, like I said, I've been doing this for a really long time.
In the early days we wrote, you made all the ASIX and we manufactured all the PC boards downstairs.
And we wrote all the operating systems, every line, from scratch.
So the systems companies added a tremendous amount of value into the end products.
Today, the technology's pretty mature.
You can buy industry standard networking silicon.
There are open source packages that are you know,
open source operating systems and routing protocol suites and all these things
that can be put together to make sense and provide very functional solutions for customers.
And so at Cumulus what we do is, I think, our biggest strength is not inventing everything.
Finding something, when something exists and it makes a lot of sense you just use it
and leverage it as opposed to trying to create your own special value add.
Because in the end what customers want out of networking, they just want it to work.
You plug it in, everything works correctly.
I never want to think about it.
Ya know. Our biggest compliment, we have ya know, a couple of extremely large customers
and our biggest compliment is when we talk with them and say how's everything going and they say
ya know, I haven't thought about the network in six months.
That's the best compliment we have.  Everything should be super easy.
Perfect.  How do you maintain your current clients and how do you ya know, gain more?
The current clients are easy because they're like I said,
they use it, they're happy, they just ya know, keep coming back and keep going.
Right now, we're at the stage of the company where almost everything is done through inbound leads and through partners.
We actually have a reasonably large partner network both technology partners as well as channel partners.
Part of our vision in how we take this technology and get it into the hands of customers is through that network.
We want look at ourselves as enabling other people to be successful.
and right now that's the way we're getting most of our customers in.
Talking about your company in general, how are you funded?
How did you start getting funded?
Yeah, so we're, right, we're a series B start-up so we're, right,
we're a series B start-up so we're ya know, Silicon Valley Venture Capital type environment.
Our very, very early days myself and our, my co-founder, Nolan Leed, we self-funded the company,
we wrote a bunch of the code and did development.
We got to the point where we had secured our first customer
and that's when we took some seed funding and hired a few people to, ya know, get that customer into production.
And then, ya know, we kinda went on from there.
Are there any specific investments that you can talk about?
You mean in terms of investors themselves?
Right.  Investors.
You mean in terms of investors themselves?
You mean in terms of investors themselves?
Yeah, so our series A investors, Andreessen Horowitz,
they led the round and then Battery Ventures was second in that round.
And then our B round, Sequoia led that round with Battery and Andreessen Horowitz participating as well.
What are some of your HR methods?
Ya know, how do you hire and how do you evaluate your employees?
Do you evaluate them on a monthly, yearly basis?
That's, on the hiring side ya know, we have a pretty extensive network of people that we know.
So we leverage our network and we also utilize a couple of recruiters,
both from our venture capital partners as well as some outside recruiters for specific spot needs that we have.
So it's reasonably easy to get access to people that are interested in working with us.
We have a ya know, fantastic team.
On the evaluation side, we don't really do a lot of formal evaluations on a regular basis.
But ya know, it's a very mature company.
Most of the people here have been in the industry for a while.
They know what they're doing.
They know that they're competent.
And ya know, so we kinda manage it that way.
And then, in a slightly... whenever there's not a good fit
if somebody's struggling or things aren't working out really well,
we're pretty good about figuring out how to either fix something or ya know, part ways, if necessary.
Tell me about your company culture.
Company culture.  We strive for ya know, open communication, ya know.
Lot's of questioning, lots of answeriing.
Ya know, people being able to post their ideas and put them up so for evaluation and thought process.
And we strive very hard for respect.
Those are the two biggest tenets that we have in the culture today.
I was looking at the layout ya know, of your office.  Everything's pretty open.
Yeah.
So what made you decide on this kind of office atmosphere versus cubicles or something different?
Right. So having been an engineer myself and worked with large numbers of engineering teams,
what you find is there's times when people want to collaborate and there's times when people want to be isolated.
And more often than not, when people want to be isolated, being in the office isn't really the best place for them.
Some people work really well in coffee shops, some people work really well at home.
And ya know, in the modern world you have connectivity for almost everywhere.
So it allows people when they want to be away,
there's plenty of places they can go away and we encourage that type of relationship.
When they're here, often times they're in a situation where they want to be communicating with somebody.
They want to be able to talk to their neighbor or working on a problem or watching what's going on.
So it allows people to be more connected to the environment.
And then God invented these great things called headphones
and we have a small cultural idiom where if you put your headphones on, people aren't supposed to bother you.
They can send you an instant message if they want to get your attention but they don't come tap you on the shoulder.
So it gives people the ability to isolate themselves just by putting on their headphones.
How do you approach your clients and that, you know, and get their business?
When, often times right now or actually for the most part right now, the leads come inbound, so
someone reaches out either to us directly or through a partner.
They come reach out to us because they're interested in understanding the technology and, and the opportunity.
We have a few inside sales people that ya know, collect those, those initial touches, those initial prospects.
And we have a whole set of tools that we leverage throughout the chain.
One of the biggest ones for us right know we call it a customer workbench.
And it allows customers to come in and ya know, try the technology, go through some training labs.
Get their heads wrapped around Cumulus Linux.
What bare metal networking market would look like for them in a no risk way.
So they can do it remotely, it can be instructor driven, it can be self-paced labs or self-exploration.
There's many ways that people can touch this thing.
And it gives a customer, a potential customer, a way to sit down and say, does this make sense for me?
Do I understand what this is all about?
Or is this not what I'm interested in?
And that's kinda the biggest tool set that we use right now.
Okay.  Well thanks a lot for your time. I appreciate it JR.  And good luck.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, thanks.

Um, so, tell us a little bit about yourself. And, uh, yeah.
My name is Sheridan Tatsuno.
I am- I m a serial entrepreneur and filmmaker from San Francisco.
Uh, what are some of the companies you ve worked with?
Let s see, I started first as an urban planner
and I worked with a, uh, geotechnical company called Woodward-Clyde Consulting in downtown San Francisco.
We did environmental impact statements and planning for major energy projects throughout the west in the US. And 
Okay. Um  What is the most successful startup you ve worked with?
Let s see. I ve helped co-found, what, 8 startups now.
One of them called Audience, Inc. in Mountain View, California went public about 2 years ago.
Um, they did voice recognition.
It was a spin out out of Caltech. PhD with, uh, the top audio neurologists in the world on their board.
Professor Carver Mead from Caltech* is on their board.
So they had a stellar team.
And, uh, they provided a voice  kind of recognition and which you could see visually on- on your computer.
And they sold- We, uh, sold to Apple and Toyota and Motorola.
Um. So  Tell us about the process of going public for that company.
Well actually, I was not involved in the process going public 
Okay.
Well actually, I was not involved in the process going public 
Well actually, I was not involved in the process going public 
So I can t comment on that.
Then that would be  Okay. Um  Have you been involved in any IPOs?*
So I can t comment on that.
Then that would be  Okay. Um  Have you been involved in any IPOs?*
Not- Not personally. That was only one and I was not a part of the company.
Okay.
Not- Not personally. That was only one and I was not a part of the company.
Not- Not personally. That was only one and I was not a part of the company.
Then.
Okay. Um  I know you ve done a lot of business plans for startups.
Um, can you  Do you have any tips on how to build a good SWOT analysis?**
Okay. Um, I come out of the market research field
and we usually do competitor- competitor analys- analyses, um, and market research.
So you look at both the market opportunity, um, and then the threat, so your competitors.
Most people don t do very well in either area.
For example, take- Uh, the first 3 questions I ll ask any CEO or entrepreneur,
uh - and most people can t answer these questions - but very simple ones.
First question; what are the top 3 problems that keep your customer up at night?
How much money is it costing them?
Secondly; what is your solution? How much money does it save them per quarter?
And third question is; what solutions do your competitors offer in those areas
and what is the difference in the price and performance?
And I ve almost, uh-
No entrepreneur I ve ever met has ever done their homework and cannot answer most of these questions.
And it s, uh- it s no wonder why they fail, because the venture capitalists, we usually ask those questions.
Okay. Uh 
What s the biggest piece of advice you have for anyone entering a leadership role in the first- for the first time?
Um. I think humility is the biggest problem
I ve- I ve advised, oh, probably 7-800 top technology companies in the world,
from IBM down to startups in Europe, Asia, um, Japan, and, uh 
One of the problems I see is the incredible arrogance among, um, the top leadership
because they usually went to the top schools,
they had the top grades, um,
and they d- they re very, kind of isolated, um, in their bubble,
and they don t listen to anybody.
So one of the things I would advise people going into leadership roles is to take off your- your- your ego,
and ask people questions and listen very carefully to what people are telling you,
and ha- even have an open door.
And if you do that, you ll- people will begin to have faith in you and trust in you
because you re open minded.
Um. But that s very rare, I notice, um, because I ve advised a lot of companies and,
uh, it s really hard to break through that bubble.
Okay. Do you think ego can ever be a good thing in business?
It can if it s in the right place.
I mean, ego s good for, I call it, as a driver.
In other words, when you wanna get going, moving fast,
you have to have a strong ego because you re gonna hit a lot of bumps in the road.
Um, you have to have a thick skin, and that means thick e- strong ego,
because you re gonna be attacked, criticized, laughed at, and made fun of.
Mm hmm.
And that s when a strong ego s very, very important.
You have to withstand that.
Uh, most people confuse ego with being, uh, kinda domineering and almost like a dictator, and bossing people around.
That s the wrong definition of ego.
That s actually a weak ego masquerading as a strong ego.
A strong ego is somebody who is withable to withstand incredible pressures and criticism and not be fazed by it.
And there are very few leaders who can do that.
What advice do you have for anyone going in to a venture capital pitch for the first time?
Well, first of all, do your homework.
Find out what does this venture capitalist invest in.
Make sure you re going to the right one.
Um, many times, people go to the wrong VC and they say,
 Sorry, we don t invest in your area. 
And then once- Before you go in, you better know your, um  what you re- Do your homework.
Uh, you should practice your pitch with everybody,
both people in your company and outsiders and customers to make sure it sounds right.
As- Let them ask you tough questions because the VCs will usually, uh, ask them.
Um. And if you don t know, just be honest.
Say,  I don t know, I ll get back to you on it. 
But don t- don t ever try to bluff people or BS- we call  bullshit  people.
Um, because any-
...venture capitalist will see right through it and then you ll lose credibility.
So you have to be really honest, uh, upfront, do your homework, um 
But usually what happens is VCs decide within the first 20 to 30 seconds whether they like you and wanna invest in you.
It s- It s very- It s a very intuitive type of thing because they re investing in people.
Not just the business plan.
Because you could have the best business plan and team in the world,
but if your character s a little bit shifty and not reliable or ethical, you ll never make it.
You re not gonna get the money for one, um,
but you ll never make it in business, and so, um, you can usually-
The VCs are very good, they can read character within 20, 30 seconds  cause they ve seen thousands of people.
What would you say the most important things for that first impression are?
Well, first one is be yourself and be real.
Okay? Um, take off the mask. Most people try to fake it.
Investors could see right through it. It s like trying to fake yourself through a relationship.
Um, most women can see through it. Same thing.
So just be honest, be real, um, but make sure you do your homework too,
so you, you know- you are knowledgable.
Because you don t have to know everything,
nobody expects you to know everything,
but you need to be honest with yourself and what you know and what you don t know,
and be honest with the person you re talking to.
And I think that s really important.
What was your biggest failure as a, um, start- uh, in the startup world,
and what did you learn from it?
Personally or the company?
Uh, let s go personally, because you ve gotten so many companies.
Hmm. I think my failure is-
Well, then  Most venture capitalists have the same problem.
I pick bad companies.
Mm hmm.
And I m too excited about the technology,
so all the gee-whiz, gadgets, and buzz, and hot market, and I don t really evaluate the person well enough.
Especially their- their ability to execute under pressure without losing it emotionally.
I think that s where I need a little bit more training,
and I think that s where it s more subjective than objective.
Mm hmm.
It s sort of like picking, um  Well, I ll use, um, a filmmaking example.
It s like picking a really good actor for the role.
If you re a casting director, you see thousands of people and you just kinda have to know,
 This is the right person for the right role. 
And that s very much like, um, picking companies.
That- When you find a CEO, you know the company s gonna have to do-
You need to find the right CEO, the right job,
and it s just like casting an actor, the- the lead actor in a movie.
 Cause they are. They re in charge.
Are there any cultural taboos related to business situations in America?
Okay. I mean, there are a lot of taboos in business. I mean 
Um, any particular, um- As an Asian American, having done, uh, business in the Ja- in the 
Uh. It s specifically in Japan.
Are there any Japanese customs that would be completely...
Different?
Yes.
Okay. Yes, there are many, actually.
Um. I would argue that Japan, historically and culturally, is almost the opposite side of the moon from the US.
I mean, it s almost black and white, it s so different. At least historically.
I think they re merging now because there are more westernized Japanese and more Americans who-
who are becoming, uh, sensitive to Asian cultures.
But I- I m- I m fluent in Japanese and when I go into meetings,
it always amazes me that when I walk out,
I ask the Americans what they said, and the Japanese, and I get a totally different answer.
And I ask myself,  Was this the same meeting? 
Because their basic premises, the way of thinking,
uh, their issues were oftentimes totally different, so when they walk out 
For ex- Well, let me give your one example.
Um, this is more because of the industrial structure, but,
uh, many Silicon Valley companies meet large Japanese companies.
So it s kinda unfair  cause you have a large company in Japan with a small one.
The Japanese companies, historically, but this is changing, never laid off people,
whereas Americans, because of Wall Street, just fire at will.
So after your quarterly profit s down, just fire people  cause they re dispensable.
Japan, you would never do that.
Well, now they are doing it, but that s a last resort.
Americans, it s the first resort.
So when the Japanese meet the Americans, they can t understand.
They say,  Americans say people are important, and they fire everybody when the CEO screws up. 
Whereas in Japan, if the CEO screws up,
they try to do something to make sure the family or the company s protected,
and employees, versus the Americans, they say the CEO takes all the wealth and money and just fires people.
So that s a huge cultural difference.
It s probably because of the financial, um, structure, um, but partly cultural, too.
Okay. Um  Yeah. Describe- Uh, describe one of your business role models.
Okay, every- Now I know everybody always talks about Steve Jobs,
um, and I don t wanna use that one because it s- everybody s talked about it.
But he s- you know, he s very admirable because of what he did as a Silicon Valley innovator.
Um, let s see, who else would be good?
Michael Dell.* I- I spoke with Michael when he was-
...leaving- quitting college to start up, um, Dell Computer out of his dorm.
Uh, I thought he was very impressive as a young man.
In fact, uh, he was, I think, 19 years old when he dropped out.
He was a pre-med major, um, and making a lot of money out of his dorm at the University of Texas in Austin.
But he totally blew me away.
We talked for about 45 minutes and I asked him questions,
and he basically explained the whole Dell Computer business strategy to the year 2000.
What year was this in?
1985 or 6, somewhere near there.
Mm.
So he, um- I actually wrote about it.
I have a- I wrote a e-book called  In the Valley of Digital Dreams  about wor-
growing up and working in Silicon Valley and it s a e-book on Amazon.
And in that chapter, I talk- There s, uh, one called, uh,
let s say  An Amazing Conversation with Michael Dell  where I just retell the story of that conversation.
And even to this day, I m totally stunned by Michael Dell s brilliance and his presence.
I mean, it s just- He- He was this- I mean, the hair on the back of my neck *
I have never met too many business geniuses in my life,
and I ve met tens of thousands of people in Silicon Valley over 30 years.
But he  and, um, Stephen Case of AOL,**
those are the 2 people where my hair stood up.
A- And I knew they were different.
They were totally different.
And- So I sp- I- I imagine if I had met Steven- uh, Steve Jobs,
I would have probably reacted the same way.
And one of the things about, um, business geniuses like that is they have- what they have- it s like a-
You know actors have charisma when they walk into a room?
Well, business geniuses have this incredible animal energy, and you can t stop them.
They re like a unstoppable force of nature. And they re so brilliant  cause they ve- They re like chess players.
They ve already thought all of these combinations.
And the only way I can explain how- how they think is  Most people are- are naysayers or negativists.
For example, if you put roadblocks in the road,
they re like a truck, and they stop, and then they start analyzing the situation.
These guys are just like a tsunami - they go right over it.
They don t even see it.
And you can t stop them.
And that s the impression that I had when I met both of them.
So, um, yeah, those are the most impressive business people I ve ever met.
What are the top 3 pieces of advice you would give any startup?
Okay. Let s see. First is, um, know your customer very, very well.
Most companies start out and they don t have a clue what customers want.
And it doesn t have to be, you know, a huge market.
It could be simply talking to a neighbor or friend, or 
and then really understanding what their needs are, or their pai- We call it  pain points. 
Um. That s really important, and most people don t spend enough time on that one.
They spend a lot of marketing dollars chasing a market that doesn t exist,
because they didn t do their homework upfront.
Um. The second is basically provide what I call a  must-have solution. 
In other words, offer something that people wanted yesterday,
not  oh that s nice to have  because they ll never buy a  nice to have  product, usually.
Unless they re wealthy.
But if it s a  must-have,  they ll all buy it. Or use it.
And the- And the third question is, is- I think a lot of it is part of being hu- uh, humble
It s always having your ear to the ground, listening, asking people for feedback, even if it s negative feedback.
Um. And constantly listening to the market and what people are telling you, and then adjusting your strategy,
um, so you don t turn deaf or blind like a lot of the CEOs I see in corporate.
So if you can do the 3, you know, um, listen to your customer, um, really offer  must-have  products and services,
and then just listen carefully to the feedback.
I think if you do the 3 of those, you usually can t miss.
What would in a tech company, uh,
which is more important for financial success: the tech or the business?
Oh boy, that s a tough one. It s like saying,  Is your mother or father more important? 
I mean, they re really both important.
Um. I mean, I- I m a business guy, so I tend to say business, and here s why.
I ve seen thousands and thousands of technologies and products fail.
So it doesn t matter if you went to MIT or Stanford or Harvard in electrical engineering,
and have, you know, millions of degrees and are a genius, right?
If you don t have a business model, you ll fail, like the tens of thousands of companies I ve seen.
On the other hand, you could be a- a kid named Steven Jobs with no degrees at all,
and he was just really good at working people and listening.
Um, so when push comes to shove,
I think having a good business nose is probably more important than technology.
Because I ll be frank, technology is a commodity nowadays.
There are tens of thousands, or millions of Chinese and Indians and Russians who could do it better than us.
So. How can you win when you re competing against the world now on the basis of technology?
And I think that s the difference between why Silicon Valley is much more successful in building big companies,
and as smart as the Indians and Russians are,
they just don t have the business knowhow like we do to go global on the scale we do.
And they have to come here to learn it, actually.
What s the most interesting piece of technology any company you ve started or worked-
or been a founder of has developed, and how did they develop it?
Well, actually, the one- the startup I m doing right now is pretty exciting.
Um, it s called TruNorth Global. T-R-U without the E. Um,
and what we do is we have this, uh, new, um  Well it s-
...a, what do you call it? E-learning platform.
You know, online learning platform, in which you can embed learning in your work tasks.
But the best part of it is we have this cool dashboard where, uh, you can do search, not only use text but voice.
So what it does is- is once you integrate, um, all the databases, uh, into the- the cloud using the platform,
you can access any data, anything you want within seconds. Right?
Video, audio, x-rays, MRI scans, anything you want.
And it records everything going on in real time, so it s like a black box recorder.
So whenever you have a video conferencing, uh, session, um, you re watching a program, you re doing texting and all that,
all of that interaction s being recorded in real time, and you can access it later by voice.
What pain point does this- What s the biggest pain point that this company solves?
Okay.
The biggest one is, uh, helping companies- um, the employees find misplaced files.
Mm hmm.
The big problem right now is that they have all these  data silos, we call them, all over the place,
and nobody can find anything, and it s getting worse with this explosion of data.
Um, they re actually forced to research.
The market research company says
the average employee in a company spends anywhere from 6 to 10 hours a week looking for files.
The first company that we talked to, they have a quarter million employees.
Their- their, um, business guys jumped when they found out that we could find anything in seconds
once they integrate their system.
Because they re losing a hundred million dollars a month right now,
because they can t find their files.
They re paying these people s really good salaries,
and they re spending almost up to a quarter of their time looking for files, not getting any work done.
And in fact, during the meeting, the CEOs and them, they couldn t even find their own files.
And they just laughed. They said- We- We asked them,
 Can you find your- your files or reports? 
and they go,  Who can find anything nowadays? 
You know, if there s spreadsheets or whatever,
they say,  Well, you know, there s 40 spreadsheets. Uh, who has the latest version? 
 I don t know. We don t know. 
And it s a global- uh, globally shared spreadsheet with 50 people working on it.
They can t even track down what s the latest version.
So how do you work when you can t even find a fi- the latest file?
So that s the big pain point right now, and, um, I- we-
Conservatively, I think the users of Fortune 1000 are- is losing over a trillion dollars a year be-
in wasted time because they can t find their files.
And it s getting worse because there s more data coming every day. In fact, there s, um-
With all the smartphones and all these devices now, we re being flooded with data,
and if you think it s bad now, it s gonna be a thousand times worse in 2, 3 years.
So how are you gonna find your files?
That s the big problem everybody s facing right now.
Uh, do you have any traction with this company?
Oh, yeah. Uh, we were- In fact, our company is,
um, in good shape because SAP, the largest supplier of backhand,
you know, um, data processing systems for companies -
they call them ERP, Enterprise Research Planning systems
- has about 220,000 companies, corporate users, around the world.
They have about 85% of the world market.
One company s called Toyota, the other one s called United Airlines.
I mean, they re massive customers.
Um. We re- Our TruClick interface, our dashboard,
which is real flexible and uses voice search, is now gonna be the standard interface for their real time-
their HANA real time data analytics engine.
So, we re gonna be basically be sitting on top of a whale.
The biggest whale in- in the world for enterprise.
So, um, for a startup company that s bootstrapped,
which means we didn t have any money at all,
it s all- we just spent our time on it for the last year and half,
to be in the position where we re gonna actually be the key interface 
We re gonna Apple-ize SAP with a easy user interface.
To be able to do that is a dream come true.
Very few companies can do that.
What advice do you have for people who are bootstrapping?
Um, I think the key is- is to-
Well- Well there s 2 words of advice, and probably the most important is, okay, know your customer.
Ask a lot of questions.
Constantly be curious, asking people what s wrong, what s missing, be very observant
and don t take, um, conventional thinking at face value.
Always challenge everything, like Steve Jobs always did.
He challenged everything.
So always be asking and looking around.
Second is surround yourself with the smartest people in the world.
They don t have to be brilliant, um, scientists.
They could be, um, a housewife who knows everything about that, uh, let s say housewife purchasing patterns.
But they have to be really, really smart and seasoned in whatever area they are,
whether it s finance, um, human resources, uh, logistics, or whatever you re looking at.
But you wanna surround yourself with the smartest people in the world.
Since you ve helped to raise-
Or, tell us how much you ve helped to raise for, uh, startup companies.
So I helped to raise, what, 10 million dollars for 7 startups, tech startups, over the last, what 
Well, after the crash of 2000, which was really hard because it was easy to get funding before 2000,
but after that, it was, I think, 1 out of a thousand got funded.
So I was- I was actually batting 45%, which was way over the industry average back then, um.
And I- And the reason why I could do it is I have a huge advantage.
I m a market researcher by training, so I- I m- I always look at emerging markets and customers.
I know how to find out what customers really want,
and what they re willing to pay for, I could figure out the business model 
So once I do that, it s easy to raise money.
But most companies don t know how to do that, so no investor will invest.
So  What s the most important thing to getting a seed financing round completed?
Well nowadays, um, everybody s doing what they call  lean startups,  right?
Which is, basically, you bootstrap it with your- with no money at all.
...You just live with mom and dad, or you-
you do a part time job and you live together in a- in a- a dorm or whatever with your friends,
and you just get out a- what they call a  minimum viable product. 
Just a prototype, it s really simple.
Don t try to do something fancy.
But something that solves an immediate problem.
Alright? So  I mean, Twitter s a good example. That was really simple.
Come on, a hundred and forty characters?
How technically hard is that to do? Right?
But it was- It met a specific need.
Um. The latest one was WhatsApp.
Good example, they sold for 19 billion to Facebook, right?
That one served a- a very qui- uh, useful function of instant messaging.
And the big problem there was that everybody was paying huge fees to the carriers, in Europe, especially.
And with WhatsApp, you could just go direct, you didn t need the carriers who were overcharging consumers.
So, I mean, I- I think if you come up with something really, kind of interesting and that solves a problem,
whether it s overpri- overcharging, um, hard to get information, or whatever, um,
then you can usually come up with a good business.
But you have to look hard for it, I mean, cause all the easy stuff is already taken.
So you have to be a little bit different and think differently, and- and it oftentimes is an accident.
Like our startup.
It s kind of an accident  cause we started in 1 thing and then it s very, very different from what we thought it would be.
So you have to be very openminded and flexible.
What are the  top 3 most important characteristics of a CEO?
Um. First of all, I think the CEO should have a pretty strong vision about what s gonna happen in the future.
Um, all the good ones I ve seen had a clear mission in mind of what they were trying to achieve.
Um, the second is they have to have a strong ego.
Not in a- as a- as a dictator, but somebody who could withstand incredible pressure and criticism,
and- into- or, throughout the- their career,
because they re gonna be  actually, bullied, harassed, criticized, made fun of, ridiculed,
and if you can t stand it, get out of the kitchen, as they say.*
So a very strong ego. Okay?
And the third is you have to be very persistent.
You have to be able to be knocked down 10,000 times
and get back up and say,  I m gonna keep going.  Okay?
And if you can t- If you don t have those 3, you ll never make it as a CEO.
You gotta have a strong vision, a clear vision,
 cause everybody s gonna be looking at you for, you know, direction, what s the- what s the mission, what s the vision,
and if you don t have that, nobody will follow you. Alright?
And the second is you have to take the punches for the whole company, not just yourself.
You have to take all the flak that s aimed at all your employees, and stand up and take it. Okay?
And- And third, you have to be able to get back on your feet and rebound
when you get knocked down time after time after time after time after time.
If you can do those 3, you ll be a good CEO.
Okay, I m a market researcher, not a marketing guy, okay?
The difference is simple.
It s that a market researcher determines where the market is and how much people are willing to pay for that.
Okay? So it s like drilling for oil.
I m the geo- geologist looking and prospecting and then I say,
 Okay, this is where we should drill. 
And if you re good, you hit every time. Okay?
Um. Marketing is, once you figure out where the drill is, where the hole is,
then you just send in the troops and, you know, you tell everybody,
 Okay, we re gonna be selling oil. 
That s easy.
Once you know where the oil is and you re pumping it, it s just like telling the customer,
 Okay, come and get it. 
But the market research is tough because-
And that s what separates really good companies from bad companies, is, um, they can t find markets
because it s so competitive out there, like maybe 20 or 30 competitors all going for the same market.
And then the market dries out or gets saturated and you have to find new markets, and then they run out of-
They- They can t find the oil in the next oil well, and they re out of business.
So that s, um, why market research is probably, I think, more important than marketing.
I ve seen a lot of companies 
um, in fact, many of- some of our startups, um, spends huge amounts of money in marketing dollars,
and there was no market and they all went under.
...So, to use an analogy - I like to use analogies - um, market research is like,
if you re a archer, saying where the target is and how far away it is, how big it is, okay?
And then marketing is once you know that, you just shoot the arrows, right?
But, uh, if you don t have a target, you can shoot all the arrows you want,
which is marketing, but you ll waste all your dollars.
Okay.
If there s no target.
That s good advice. Um  So what is the principal target audience for TruNorth Global?
Our principal market?
Yes.
Okay. O- Ours is, um, basically, uh, SAP , 220,000+ existing corporate accounts.
I mean, those are people- Right now, they re moving them all, um, onto the cloud,
then they re moving them to HANA, the real time data analytics engine.
Um, and so we re helping them move to HANA,
and by making it easy with our interface and our- our, uh, platform, to make the shift.
Right now, m- Companies are very reluctant to do that because it-
You know, SAP has historically been difficult to use,
 cause you have to have engineers and very complex problems, so it scared away people.
But we have a very simple interface now, so anybody can come on, use it, very easy.
Sort of like Apple. Make it easy for the user, and then, uh-
But they don t- they don t realize that the product is there yet,
so it s just- from now on, it s a matter of marketing it with SAP.
Okay. Can you tell us a little bit about Dreamscape Global?
Okay. Dreamscape Global is my own consulting firm which I, um, established in 1989.
Um, I came out of DataQuest, a Silicon Valley market research company where I worked during the  80s.
Uh, I was one of the co-founders of the Japanese and the Asian semi-conductor services.
So we used to advise, oh  oh, was it 500 semi-conductor companies
and probably 2,000 tech companies around the world there during the  80s,
uh, when semi-conductors were a booming market.
Um. So I was there for 8- about almost 8 years, and then I jumped ship,
and for the last 25 years, I ve been doing, um, market research and breakthrough strategy work.
So at DataQuest, we just did the first half, market research.
Where s the oil well? But then when I did consulting, they say,
 Okay, we know where the well is. How do we- How do we make money? 
So what the- Typically, the companies I ve advised... I ve advised so many of them.
Um. They d say,  Okay, we want a billion dollars in revenues in the first year and 10 billion in 5 to 10, okay, so 
...show us exactly where the markets are, what the products are, what they want, how we re gonna price it, exactly,
and show us all the steps to get there, 
and I say,  Do you want me to be the CEO? 
And they say,  That s correct. That s why we re hiring you.
 Cause you re supposed to know how to find the money.
 Cause we don t know how to figure it out. That s why we re hiring you. 
Right?  Cause I typically work with, um, companies that are- sales are flat or they re going under.
 Cause companies that are growing, they don t need me. Right?
So. I m either what they call, um, turnaround doctor, for companies that are going down and it s in panic mode,
and they re laying off people and they re going under, so I have to turn them around, or I m a maternity ward.
Um, the- Lemme give you an example.
The first case where it was a turnaround, my bosses at DataQuest were advising Intel when they were going-
they were about 6 months from bankruptcy in 1985,
 cause the Japanese had taken out their memory chip business and they were really at the end.
Um, and so we advised them to go into microprocessors  cause the PC was coming,
and, uh, we helped them with the microprocessor market, uh, research and,
you know, they did a successful turnaround.
That was probably the biggest turnaround in history, almost, and especially in Silicon Valley.
Um. So that s a good example of a turnaround situation.
I ve been involved in many of those.
And then the second is, um,
the maternity ward where you have a company that has a new operation and they re trying to grow.
The best one is Nokia.
So I helped train the Nokia launch team in 1994 when they- they had the old, um, the old Nokia,
which designed boots and chemicals, and then they- they- after the Cold War cr- ended,
they spun off, um, a small company when they used the digital phone technology from the military.
And then they made the little hand- you know, handsets.
So, well, I was involved with this, um, uh, Strategos
which is run by Professor Gary Hamel from the London School of Business.
And we were tasked to, uh, help figure out the global strategy for Nokia.
So I was involved in the first phase, um, the first kick-off session for about 3 or 4 days.
We did it in Heathrow Airport, it was ultra top secret.
And, um, what was interesting about that team, it was- there were only about 50 or 60 people on the launch team,
and they were all- the average age was 24 years old.
So. There were kids from 21 to 27, and the 31 year old was the old guy.
Um, but that was their first job out of college.
And they entrusted the whole global strategy for Nokia s phones to these 24 year olds, basically.
And so we trained them and it was fun because they had no experience internationally at all.
None. I mean, they were about as naive as you could get.
Um. Their idea of international experience was taking a vacation to, you know, Thai- Thailand,
or, you know, summer- summer, or going to Germany on vacation.
But they really didn t have any experience,
so we- what we did is we trained them on how to think strategically on a global scale.
So that was- that was fun.
But that s a good example of a, um, maternity ward that did well.
Um. Nokia actually, uh, beat Motorola in 3 and a half years.
So they w- our strategy consulting worked.
They, uh, became number 1 in the world in 3 and a half years.
Which was a- It sent shockwaves around the world because nobody knew who Nokia was,
and they caught Motorola and everybody totally by surprise.
So. I ve been involved in a- oh gosh, about a dozen of those huge, I mean, turnarounds and breakthroughs, I mean 
And- Well, we re talking big, we re talking tens of billions of dollars a year of revenues, you know, over time.
Not just mi- Billions.  Cause in electronics, as you know, um, if you do it right, you get a billion the first year.
Okay. And if you do it really well, it goes 20, 30 billion over 10 years. So it scales fast.
Mm hmm.
Alright? That s why, um, slight changes in strategy and all- I mean. Adds up really fast to billions of dollars.
Uh, how did you start promoting, uh, TruNorth Global?
How did you start- How did you get your original clients?
Let s see now. Um  Actually, the company, believe it or not, is an accidental startup.
And it- Uh, it started because I had- I had coffee with a guy I didn t wanna meet.
Okay? So. A sales guy.
And then he took me to his boss, or training coach, and then we had dinner with another guy, and-
who was a former CEO who had built his company to 180 million dollars.
That s our CEO. Um, and then they said, well, what do we do, and we re talking and he said,
 Oh, we re doing a mobile app, but nobody s using it. 
So I said,  Hmm.  They said,  Sheridan, you re a market research guy. What would you do? 
And I said,  Well, let s save HP. * And they said,  What? Why save HP? 
And I said,  Well, it s simple. They have the cloud, but nobody s using it, so it s just sitting empty.
So if we come in with an app, we ll be the first one on the HP cloud, and then they ll give us a lot of attention.
So we can help save HP,  cause CEO, you know, Meg Whitman is trying to say,
 We re pushing the cloud,  but they have nothing to offer."
So we said,  Okay,  and that s how we started.
So we went right to HP and they- they said,  How did you know we re having problems? 
We said,  Well, we read the newspapers.  Because nobody is using HP.
So that s how we started, and then, uh- But eventually, we- we got, um, SAP and NEC as our, um, global partners.
So we actually are gonna have quite a few partners.
We ll have SAP, NEC, HP, IBM, Dell, all the big boys are gonna be part- partners with us.
 Cause we have the solution for all their servers and cloud services.
That s really exciting.
Yeah.
Um  I think that s all the questions I have.
Yeah.
So, great. Thank you very much, Sheridan.
Okay.
Is there anything else you d like to add before we, uh, cut the camera?
Yeah, I think, um, for anybody who s, uh, studying English, or especially business English,
I think one of the big obstacles people have is they re shy because they re afraid of making mistakes.
But if you learn English like you re riding- learning how to ride a bicycle, you ll do alright.
If you watch children, they try and they fall down, they get up, they try, they fall down 
You have to do that.
You have to keep trying and making mistakes, falling down, and getting feedback, right?
Otherwise, you ll never learn English. And the biggest problem I see 
...among, um, foreigners, especially Asian and Japanese, for cultural reasons,
they re very shy and very embarrassed easily.
So it s hard to learn a foreign language or business practices  cause they re afraid of making any mistakes.
Because in Japan and in many Asian countries, if you make a mistake, it s all over.
They criticize you or laugh at you, so that s the biggest thing I would do, is, you know 
- It s like riding a bike.
You gotta fall down a couple of times before you master riding a bicycle.

You re good to go.
Cool. So my name s, uh, Nick Hakim.
I m a co-founder and CEO of, uh, MusicVault.
And, uh, my partners and I really had the idea,uh, 
for MusicVault when, you know,we realized how difficult it was to track all the music that you listen to on the web.
Um, it became sort of a big problem for us, um, you know,when we were just- just hanging out with friends, or, you know,
frequenting parties or social events and everyone- everybody wanted to play, you know, a specific song.
But there was really no one central source,
uh, where everybody could come to,aggregate all the music they listen to across different sources,
and share it with their friends, which is- which is how we had the idea for MusicVault.
Okay. Um, what made you interested in becoming an entrepreneur?
I was interested in becoming an entrepreneur, um, partly, uh,
due to, you know, things I- I had been involved in with as a kid.
Um, I always kind of had that entrepreneurial spirit.
Um, when I was about 14, uh- actually, 13, 14 years old,um, I started my own landscaping company.
Um, I had 4 or 5 lawns in my neighborhood that I would, you know, cut over the summer.
And I really liked being, you know, my own boss, working on my own time, and making my own money.
Uh, so that s kind of what sparked, you know, my entrepreneurial spirit, you could call it.
Um, and, you know, after- after I went to college, um, I- I kind of, you know, got involved with a couple different ventures,
um, and also a couple of my dad s companies.
Uh, my dad has been an entrepreneur his whole life.
Um, he started a few, uh, pretty successful companies, and, you know,
that- that really helped me, um, to jump start my own ventures and to get involved in my own businesses.
Um  So  Okay, you already talked about, um, your company a little bit.
What s the future like for this industry?
The future of the music industry is, um- it s kind of tough to- to describe,
but, um, in my personal opinion, um, you know, as everybody knows, you know,
our generation is very luc- reluctant to, you know, pay for the music or pay for the services- any service, really, for that matter,
that they use online. Um, and that- especially music.
So, um, there s been a lot of artists recently, um, with, you know, just new- new genres of music like EDM,* that,
you know, are constantly putting out new- new tracks and, you know, new remixes and that kind of stuff, and- and rather than,
you know, make a fraction of a dollar on, you know, purchasing music,
they d rather give all of their music out for free,
um, so that the majority of people have it.
It builds a clout around the music, and then, you know, they- they can hype it up,
um, for ticket sales or for merchandise sales.
So. So that s- that s where artists are starting to really make their money.
Um, if, I mean, the- the digital sales of music have gone down,
um, year over year, um, for about 5 or 6 years now and I don t- I don t see that trend stopping.
Um, I- I think more and more artists are gonna start giving out their music for free,
and, um, it s- it s gonna become much more open source.
Okay. Um  What s your vision and your ultimate goal for your company?
Ultimate goal for MusicVault, um, is definitely to become,
you know, that one place that you re gonna come to to search for any music you- you wanna listen to,
whether it be from YouTube, SoundCloud, Spotify, or whatever service you may use.
Uh, we wanna give you one centralized location to find any music on the internet,
and, you know, share it with your friends, um, and really incorporate it into playlists,
um, that are much easier to manage than, you know, having separate accounts at YouTube, SoundCloud, Spotify, and the like.
Okay. Uh. So I m gonna ask you a question, um, that uses the word  pain points. 
Sure.
Um. There s a few of these, and if you could use the word  pain points  in your answers 
Mm hmm.
...that would be awesome.
Sure.
So what kind of problems, uh, does your service solve?
So there s a lot of problems and pain points that our problem,
uh, er- our- Let me start that over.
There s a lot of, uh, problems and pain points that our- our service caters to.
Um. Some things that we have found, uh, most frequently
among- amongst our users is that they really struggle to manage all the accounts that they have across various services.
So, I mean, for example, myself, I have an account with YouTube,
I have an account with SoundCloud, I have an account with Spotify,
but, um, you know, I listen to different types of music on every service.
So there s no central location out there for me to find all the music and all the genres of music that I want in one location.
So that s definitely the biggest problem that we re solving for our customers.
Um, but there is other pain points out there for- for our consumers.
Um, they- they don t want ads.
Um, you know, they don t wanna have to pay a pretty steep monthly fee for,
you know, a licensed catalog of music that may not have, you know, the songs they re looking for.
Um, so, you know, in terms of pain points, um, there s a few pretty big ones out there that MusicVault is definitely gonna- gonna help out.
Cool. And, uh, this is gonna be another one of those 
Can you describe your principal target audience?
Sure.
Could you say  principal target audience  in there?
Mm hmm. So, MusicVault has several, uh, target audiences,
Could you say  principal target audience  in there?
Mm hmm. So, MusicVault has several, uh, target audiences,
but, um, I mean, our principal target audience is definitely, um, college-age individuals. 
Um, we call them- you know, between the ages of 18 and 22 in the US.
Um, initially, we ll be targeting, uh, just the northeast, uh, colleges and universities across the northeast,
um, to kind of, you know, build a hype around the service.
And, you know, we found that people are really listening to music together the most at colleges and universities,
you know, whether they re in the library, or, you know, hanging out on the qua- quad* with their friends, 
or, you know, at a house party on a- on a Friday night.
This is- You know, the college atmosphere is really where a lot of music discovery happens,
and that s really what MusicVault is centered around, is music discovery.
So that s- that s definitely gonna be our, you know, our primary target audience.
Awesome. Okay. So  What does your service or product, uh, offer that s different from that of your competitors? Your point of difference?
Sure. So, um, MusicVault differs from our competitors in a couple of different ways.
Um, our main point of difference is definitely the social capabilities.
Um, there are services out there right now that allow you to,
you know, aggregate all of your music from various sources,
however they don t do a good job at allowing you to share them with your friends or incorporate your friends into your music discovery process,
as we like to call it. Um, MusicVault allows you to create a playlist,
um, pull songs from any service you d like on the internet, and add your friends to that playlist.
So, you know, if you re throwing a party on a Friday night
and you have a ton of people that want to add music to the playlist,
you can simply go to the MusicVault playlist that you d like to collaborate on,
add everybody that would like to collaborate to the playlist,
and then everybody can remotely add songs right to the playlist and,
you know, ultimately, hear everything that they wanna hear that night.
Awesome. Okay. So, um, what s your core competency?
So, your capability or specific knowledge that s unique to you.
In terms of founders or the business? Or the company?
Uh, it would- it would be with both, you and your business.
Uh, what your core competency is.
Sure. So, at MusicVault, uh, we have a couple of core competencies that are definitely gonna set us apart from our competitors.
Um, number one is definitely our team.
I mean, um, there s- like I- like I mentioned before, there s a couple competitors out there.
Um, Songdrop, Whyd, uh, Bop.fm, just to name a few.
Um, however, all these companies are founded by, you know, people in their mid to late 30 s,
 um, who haven t really been submersed in, you know, the social music and music streaming scene as much as,
 you know, someone in the college-aged scene has been.
Uh, which our team has been.
Um, so, I mean, my founders and I are all, um, attending a university right now,
um, and that really puts us in the right position to market this and get it out to the mass- to a mass amount of people.
Um, so we have connections at, you know, schools all across the country,
um, that are ultimately going to allow us to scale at a much faster rate than our competitors.
Awesome. Um. How are you marketing?
Actually, you know what, let s not do that.
Let s do  Can you describe, you know, your, um, your marketing mix?
Okay. Um, so in terms of marketing, um, my team and I have generated,
um, a plan to, you know, kind of submerse MusicVault into, uh, a lot of college and universities across the US.
Um, we have developed a campaign that involves social media,
uh, definitely word of mouth, um, and a lot of sort of guerilla marketing, with, um, you know, stickers, um, promotional items and that kind of thing,
um, that are really centered around, you know, the  I m gonna have to start this over.
I forgot what I wanna talk about here.    Okay.
So, um, MusicVault s, um, marketing initiatives are really centered around, uh, a number of different things.
Um, you know, as- as we are marketing to colleges and universities across, uh, the country,
uh, we really wanna create a cool, uh, hip vibe around, you know, our target market, which is ultimately college-age individuals.
Um, and these guys, you know, they want- they want a service that, um, is fun to use, um, is social, um,
you know, involves all of their friends and- and helps them with the music discovery process.
And ultimately, our marketing campaign on social media,
um, and across, uh- campuses across the northeast,
right now, um, is centered around, you know, having fun, having parties, um, and using MusicVault in that social atmosphere,
not just when you re listening to music by yourself.
So, you know, when you incorporate a lot of people and a social setting into your marketing initiatives,
um, it can become much more effective, we ve found.
Awesome. Um. Are you planning on expanding, um, regionally or globally?
Um, absolutely, yeah. We re- MusicVault has plans for, um, nation-wide expansion, uh, definitely within the next 2 to 3 years.
Um, initially, um, our first market to tackle is definitely gonna be the northeast.
Uh, colleges and universities, uh, around the- you know, the tri-state area: New York, New Jersey, uh, Massachusetts.
Um, and we re really gonna, you know, work on honing in on our rollout strategy,
our marketing plan, uh, just around these surrounding states where we have a lot of connection with colleges and universities,
uh, that we can roll it out to, you know, a- a pretty good sized market.
Um, and then once we do establish, uh, you know, a core user base,
um, we have massive plans for expansion, um, nationwide and globally, um, into markets, um-
We re seeing- we re seeing markets like South America and markets in the Middle East where, you know,
purchasing music isn t really even an option.
Um, there s- there s some countries that charge you, you know, 5, 6- 6 dollars for a download of a song, um, so,
you know, therefore, people are just streaming music right off of YouTube or SoundCloud.
Um, so we re gonna offer those markets a place to store and organize all of their music, 
kind of like iTunes did for mp3s, only with streamed music.
Okay. Um. So let s go into your team. How did you meet your co-founders?
11:57 Sure. Um, my c- my co-founders, uh, were actually both very good- good friends of mine.
Uh, we met freshman year in college.
Uh, we actually lived right down the- the hall from each other.
And, um, we were just always, you know, sharing each other s favorite musical taste and that kind of stuff.
And- and I think we were sitting in the library or we were at a party one night and
we- we just noticed a ton of people going up to, you know, the same computer that was plugged into a speaker system, and, you know,
they would- they would go right to YouTube, search for the song they wanted to play, and,
you know, it wa- it was just kind of a pain.
Uh, we realized that, you know, people had to wait in line to play the song that they wanted to hear.
So we really wanted to solve that problem.
Um, and I think my founder- my co-founders and I, um, both have the right skill sets,
um, and, you know, the passion behind the product,
um, to- to ultimately get this product out there and- and provide it- an ultimate user experience.
Fantastic. Could you describe your company culture and how it was developed? And use the word  company culture  in there.
Sure. Our c- our company culture is, like I said before,
um, very structured around, you know, social, um, and- and having a lot of fun, ultimately.
 Cause, you know, music is a very fun industry to be in.
Uh, it s a tough industry, but very- very fun.
It s centered around, you know, social gatherings, um, meeting up with your friends, sharing musical tastes.
And, you know, our company culture is sort of built around that.
Uh, we encourage people to, you know, listen to music together, have parties,
and- and enjoy, you know, the music that all of these artists work so hard on.
Um. What s your management style?
Hm. That s an interesting question  Hmm  I would say,
at MusicVault, we have a very- very modern management style.
Um, we- we ve done a couple internships with companies down in, uh- in Brooklyn.
Um, tech startups and- and, uh, app development companies, um, things like that,
and we ve sort of adopted the same kind of management style and company culture.
Very- very laidback, um, you know, offer, you know, people that are doing work for us, 
um, you know, flexibility, um, definitely with, you know, time of work.
Um, not necessarily with deadlines, but with, um, you know, how and when you re getting the work done.
Um, but it- you know, like I said, again, um, you know, the music industry is a very fun industry to be in
and we don t wanna be, you know, that uptight, corporate feel.
We want to encourage our employees, um, to, you know, express their, 
you know- their characteristics as far as, you know, design and, you know, their musical tastes,
and incorporate that into, you know, the overall, uh, vision of MusicVault.
So you, personally, how do you deal if you have a problem with an employee or,
I guess more in your case with a developer? Uh. What s- what s your process for dealing with that?
Mm hmm. Uh, well, obviously, development- Um,
you know, MusicVault is a website, so development is very, very important for us.
Um, so our relationships with our developers are, um, I wouldn t say cutthroat,
but, um, you know, it s- it s very urgent that we provide the best music experience out there for our consumers.
And, you know, at the- at the same time we wanna provide that laidback
and easy going atmosphere in our- in our company culture,
um, you know, there are some aspects of the business that have to be,
uh, run according to schedule and, you know, they have to be, uh, held to a certain standard.
Okay. And if someone doesn t meet that standard, what would you do?
Or what do- what do you do, or what are your plan- plan of action?
Sure. Um, well, I mean, in the- in the music industry we found
that there- there are a lot of developers out there who are eager to work in the music industry because it s so fun.
Um, so, I mean, we have had issues with developers in the past where,
you know, they re- they re not meeting our standards or, you know, they re not meeting deadlines.
Um, and, you know, that- that just doesn t really fly with us.
We re- I mean, there s- there s plenty of people out there
that would love to work on a fun, exciting music startup, uh, like MusicVault.
And, you know, we try to  not threaten them with that,
but, um, you know, let them know that there are other options out there.
And I- I do realize that that kind of pushes them to exceed their expectations
and- and go, you know, push the bar a little higher.
Um. Okay. So  What s your monetization strategy?
Sure. So MusicVault has a couple different monetization strategies.
Um, in music, it- uh, admittedly, is- it s very tough to make
mu- uh, money, without, you know- or while abiding by, you know, regulations from ASCAP* and, um- and music licensing agencies like that.
Um, but we have developed a few strategies to- to monetize the site.
Um, like I said before, you know, the major pain point, um, amongst our user base,
um, when they re using other services is, um, the ads.
People don t wanna hear, you know, 15 second ads that really aren t relative or relevant to, 
you know, what- what they re doing at that particular point.
Um, so we re really looking into, um, shorter, uh, more concise, and more relative and relevant ads.
Um, like 6- 6 to 10 second ads, um, that are gonna be much more to the point and
much more demographically targeted than, you know, a site like Pandora.**
Um, in addition to advertisements, um, we re also looking into things like,
um, selling the data that we aggregate, um, from all of our user base. I mean, everybody s coming onto the site
and essentially aggregating all of their listening habits from every single different site.
So that s gonna be very, very valuable data, um, for data companies, um, you know, who wanna find out listening habits and,
you know, the popular music out there amongst different demographics.
Um so that- that definitely has a lot of value for us.
And, um, our third monetization strategy is, um, actually sell- selling and,
you know, charging brands, um, to create their own kind of musical brand.
Um, so, for example, like, a company like Urban- Urban Outfitters.*** Um, they re a very, you know, hip brand, um,
and for a company like that that wants to establish, um, you know, their own music persona,
um, we re the perfect place to do that because we can- you know, we ll have the user base, we ll have all the sources of music.
That way we can really tell, you know, what brands , uh, demographics are listening to what type of music.
And you can really, you know, push products much better towards them,
um, you know, when they re with companies that they trust and are loyal to.
Uh. How are you guys funded? Are you bootstrapped?
Do you have outside investors?
Um, to date, we re currently boots- or we re- we re bootstrapping.
Uh, bootstrapping very hard. Um, we have won a couple, uh, competitions,
uh, upwards of about $10,000 to date, uh, of which we ve spent almost all of.
So, um, we re pretty tight with money right now,
um, but we do have plans for investment, uh, in the very near future.
Fantastic. Uh  Most companies in their early stages need some time to reach their break even point after starting.
Where does your company stand on reaching your break even point?
Sure.
Sure. Um, so, to date, um, we- you know, our user base is slowly growing. Uh, we just recently launched our beta.
Um, so it s gonna take a while for us to sort of establish that core user base,
um, you know, that s gonna be our repeat customers and,
you know, they re gonna go out there and tell all of their friends about it, and they re- they re really our early adopters.
Um, so until we grow our user base into, you know, a core, um, group of users,
um, that are really passionate about the product and are willing to pay for the features that we provide,
um, we re not going to implement anything like ads or, you know, product placement or anything like that.
Because we don t want to initially deter our users, um, from leaving the site because of ads and- and things like that.
So until we reach that, uh- that tipping point, um,
you know, where our user base is, you know, substantial, um, then we re gonna start implementing,
you know, short ads and, you know, like I said, uh, implementing the brands and- and their own branded pages.
Um, so down the road, I- I would say probably about 8 to 10 months from now, um, is when we ll start implementing that. Um, so from there,
I mean, I don t anticipate our- our break even point, uh, being reached much before a year and a half from now.
Okay. Now let s get into a couple of personal questions.
Sure.
So could you talk about your background and what- uh, you know, we already really talked about that, I m sorry.
That s alright.
Um, could you describe one of your business role models?
Hm.   Tough question. I have a lot.
One of them.
Doesn t have to be the top one.
Sure.
Doesn t have to be the top one.
Doesn t have to be the top one.
Um. Does it have to be like the- a famous business person or could it just be ?
Anyone.
Anyone? Okay. Um... Hm. I would have to say, in- in this instance,
um, you know, due to the relativity to my service,
I would have to say that, you know, my business role model would definitely be Steve Jobs.
Um, Steve Jobs was, you know, a very inspirational business leader,
um, always going against, you know, th- the standards.
Um, he was told numerous times by numerous people that all of his products wouldn t work, 
nobody would use it, and, you know, it was a stupid idea,
but you know, he- he did it anyways.
And that s essentially what- what my partners and I did.
Um, you know, from- from the very early stages, um, people didn t really understand the concept, um, and they didn t really believe in it.
And we were constantly told again and again,
um, in going to competitions and, you know, showcasing our business plan that it wasn t a concept that was gonna work.
Why wouldn t people just use iTunes or why p- wouldn t people just use Pandora?
And, you know, we could have easily just given up,
but, um, just like Steve Jobs did, you know, we- we kind of persevered and- and worked through that, and, you know, look at us now.
I mean, we- we have our beta launched and people are very receptive to the idea.
Um, and I believe that was because there was just a- a small amount of a learning curve, uh, for people,
and the evolution of the music streaming industry.
Um, so I would definitely say that,you know, a lot of my inspiration with MusicVault comes from Steve Jobs and his perseverance with Apple.
Okay. And I guess, uh, we ll do one last question here.
What s been your biggest failure so far in regards to the company?
And what have you learned from it?
Hm. Hm  Um, so at MusicVault, my founders and I, um, our idea was a lot different about a year and a half ago.
Uh, we ve pivoted a bunch of times and I would say that our biggest mistake over,
you know, the course of the past year and half where we have pivoted,
you know, 5 or 6 times, is that we didn t do enough- enough customer validation.
Um, you know, we would do the product validation,
we would go out there and we would find out, you know, okay, people have this problem.
It s a commonality amongst a large group of people.
Um, but we never really did the product validation.
We never figured out, you know, will people-

So  Introduce yourself. Tell us a little about your company.
Sure. So, my name is Sean Hurley.
I m the marketing manager at Magikid and Angel Echo. We are an app developer.
Specifically, we develop kids  apps for iPhone, iPad, and Android.
How long have you been active in the US?
The company has been...
Sorry. We opened our offices in San Francisco in October of last year.
So it s been around 6 months. Yeah.
Okay. What kind of problems does your company set out to solve?
What is your target market?
Oh, our target market, we have two target markets.
Target one is the kids, you know, kids age 3 to 7 who love iPads, love games, and wanna play with colorful things.
But obviously, we can t target them directly because it s the mom and dad who are in control of that
so those are our two target markets.
And the thing that we re setting out to solve that we wanna do is give parents good educational apps that help their kids.
What sort of educational apps do you focus on?
We have a lot of different kinds of apps.
One of the main things we do is language learning.
So learning different... learning English, learning Chinese 
What sort of educational...
What sort of education do you seek to solve with your apps?
Yeah, so we have a lot of different kinds of educational apps.
Some of them are language learning, so learning English, learning Chinese.
Also have a lot of math-based apps, because kids at this age need to get a good start in math education.
We also have things like storytelling apps and digital toys.
Okay. Do you do any 
Are you just based in the mobile world or do you do any sort of transmedia?
Well, all of our apps are available on iOS.
We re just starting Android.
We also make software for Mac and Windows computers, as well as our own Magikid branded hardware, like projectors.
What s your core competency?
Our core competency?
I think the fact that we do everything in-house, which is kind of unusual for some developers.
We have musicians, designers, developers who all work together from beginning to end.
So we don t outsource any of the design work or any of the music,
which is something that kind of sets us apart from some smaller developers.
How big is your team?
Our team is two people in San Francisco and forty people in our head office in Shanghai.
Why did you choose to expand to San Francisco as opposed to some other hub in the US?
The tech market here is booming.
And one of our main focuses is on teaching Chinese
and the Bay Area has a lot of Chinese schools and Chinese speakers.
What is your competitive advantage in the educational sphere?
Hm. Interesting question.
We ve been making apps for basically as long as you ve been allowed to release apps on the iPhone.
and we ve worked with a lot of big clients like Bayer Pharmaceuticals and even people like Hello Kitty.
And we ve taken that knowledge from big brands and put it into our own apps.
Also, our team is made up of mostly educators and teachers
so they have that connection to how kids think, how kids learn.
Okay. Are you an educator by training?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. My original training was in education.
And I worked as a teacher for maybe three or four years before I started with Magikid.
That was originally how I got started in the company, was creating educational content.
Could you describe your company culture?
Hm. Well, we re primarily kids  app developers, so it s pretty childish.
Our office is quite colorful, we ve got lots of toys, kids  books, you know, sometimes it s a bit like a playground.
It s a really friendly office for kids.
We have kids come in and visit for events, so we have a lot of fun.
And the company really encourages us, the different teams, to work together.
Every week, we do a different event, go see a movie, go to karaoke.
And then, they encourage us to be healthy, happy workers.
They give us free gym passes and an extra hour at lunch to work out, so that s pretty cool.
It s a good perk of the job to work in that really friendly, colorful environment.
What gives your team motivation every day?
Seeing our app, seeing Magikid apps being used by kids.
Just, when you see, when you spend, like, six months on an app and then you re tearing your hair out over every little detail
and then when you get it for your beta testing into the hands of a kid,
and they re immediately, they love it, they re engrossed 
That gives us motivation.
Well, you know, sometimes it doesn t work like that.
Sometimes they hate it and that s, you know, the other end of that.
So who are some of your competitors in this sphere?
The kids  app ecosystem is really, really packed right now.
There are a lot of companies from huge names
like someone like Disney, PBS, that are making kids  apps, down to small mom-and-pop developers who are just doing it themselves.
So the big brands are kind of taking over the kids  app stores,
so the top paid, top free apps are by people like Disney and Nickelodeon.**
So going up against those can be tough because they ve got that recognizable characters
that kids are already familiar with from books, TVs, movies.
So yeah, those are our biggest competitors.
Are there any tricks to competing with the big boys?
Like the Disneys, all that. How do you stay afloat when you ve got that stiff competition?
We decided that we wanted to create a Magikid world that was consistent and coherent,
so all of our apps take place in the same universe, the same Magikid universe, with,
you know, different threads running, different themes and threads running through the apps.
So a character from one app will turn up in another,
and that gives kids the familiarity that Disney or Nickelodeon already has.
How did you develop this story world?
Well, it s all based around one of our first and our best selling app Magikid Chinese,
which is the story of this boy, this orphan Nick who runs away and joins the circus, and travels around the world.
So by writing those stories and the games for that,
we created this world where, you know, we decided that animals had personalities
but they couldn t talk, and that kind of-
We used that again over and over in our different apps.
So the world grew quite organically, app by app as we needed it.
Have you considered expanding out from the mobile realm into more web series or anything else with your contents?
Well, we do actually publish books to go along with our products
and we re actually working on augmented reality
so you can use the apps and the books together to unlock different functions.
Besides the books, we also create things like posters and flashcards for schools.
As for online, we wanna keep our apps to be native apps, you know, on Android or iOS, not a web experience
because we just don t think it s as good for kids.
Solid. Can you talk a little bit about the technology for
melding the books and the apps, and just 
I would, but I don t really know how that works.
No problem. Where do you have your top milestones?
Where do you plan to be in five years?
Hm. Milestones we ve already reached?
Yes.
Okay, well, our first app, Magikid Stage, was released in 2011, and that actually won some awards.
It was featured at Apple s Learning 2.0 conference, which was amazing
because it was our first kids  app.
It was the first time we d done this and it was just an experiment to see if we could.
and besides that, we ve been featured at WWDC.*
Three different apps, including Magikid Chinese, were featured there, so that was awesome seeing them.
You know, having Apple pick them.
Opening the office in San Francisco was also a huge milestone for us.
When we first signed up a school who wanted to use our apps in the classroom
and we saw thirty kids at once using them and the teacher teaching from our curriculum,
that was really cool.
As for future milestones
we just wanna make each app sell as well as it can and have kids like it as much as possible.
You know, at the end of the day, kids are our critics
kids are the ones that we want and need to impress, and if we make kids happy, laugh, and learn, then we re happy.
How is your brand tied to your story world?
Would you say they re essentially one and the same, or ?
Yeah. I mean, our logo is a clown, and the story world, a lot of it revolves around the circus.
So we do try to tie the brand
This idea of circus, and fun, and imagination, we try to tie that all together in the brand
and especially when it comes to our storytelling apps.
You know, you learn with Magikid, but you can also create content.
It s not just about consumption, consumption, it s creation and imagination.
Is there any room in your app for kids to tell their own stories, or is it all just already on your platform?
No, definitely.
Like I mentioned earlier, Magikid Stage is just an app for storytelling.
The kids are presented with a stage just like in a theater, and they can add characters and props, background music,
and then they actually record their story, and they can share it with their friends or family.
And each of our apps, almost all of them have this function, because
like I said, consumption is okay sometimes, but kids need to create.
We want them to be using their imagination, learning how to tell stories.
They become the director, the writer, the producer, everything
for their very own stories, and kids take them in crazy directions.
Do you ever use any of the kids  stories that they create to create in your own storyworld?
And apps that are educational? Educational apps?
You mean take the work that they did and steal it?
I wouldn t say  steal it,  I d say  license it.  But...
No, not really.
For a long time, we had any videos that they made
their parents could choose to upload them and share them with everybody else who was using the app.
And so a lot of people would, like, work together, they d send videos back and forth.
But we always monitored the videos, but we never, like, screened them for what content we can take, you know?
That was never an aim with this feature.
Is there any sort of platform to, with that sharing, is there any sort of incentive for the best stories?
You know some sort of a film festival or anything like that or...?
Or have you considered even like...
Not really, no.
Adding that element of competition kind of takes away from just the pure creativity, and
you know, just giving kids this blank slate and letting them go.
So a competition, it s interesting and maybe we ll look into it in the future.
The idea of a film festival, that s kind of fun, but yeah.
What age range do you target for kids?
From our simplest apps, they re for three-year-olds.
And we always say fifteen minutes a day, fifteen minutes for one session with a three-year-old
because we don t wanna be used for longer than that.
And the upper range is probably around eight years old
and at that age, they can maybe use the app for thirty, 45 minutes.

Kevin: My name s Kevin.
I m the CEO and co-founder of RecCheck.
Basically, I studied entrepreneurship and design studies at Arizona State University,
where I just developed a love for fitness and pick-up sports.
After that, I went to Draper University, which is a boarding school for entrepreneurs.
And what RecCheck is, is a mobile application for setting up your pick-up games and discovering them.
So it s a great way to meet new people around your area
who re playing games of basketball, soccer, tennis, whatever you wanna play.
So, what kind of problems does your product solve?
What what pain points do you get at?
Kevin: So the biggest problem I have when I wanna play basketball is
I ll show up to the court and there s no one there.
And oftentimes when this happens, I m driving around the whole city looking for a place to play.
I m wasting gas and wasting my time at the same time.
So  The main thing I m trying to solve is
having available pick-up games when you want them.
-BN: Okay. Can you  tell us a little bit about what a pick-up game is?
Kevin: So a pick-up game is basically any game outside of professional sports.
So if you and I were to play basketball right now, that would be a pick-up game.
It s basically any game you play with others
-BN: Who s your target market?
Kevin: Our target market are active individuals around the ages 18 to 35.
Ideally,
this population is one that plays sports or is interested in playing these sports.
-BN: Do you have any competitors in the marketplace?
Kevin: Currently, we do have some competitors in the marketplace.
mostly based out here in the Silicon Valley.
One example is Jogabo,
but what makes us different is that we re focusing on all sports.
And what we wanna do is ideally have rewards, so we wanna reward people for using our app.
The more they play, the more things they can get.
Then you get things like protein shakes, coupons for shoes, coupons for shorts.
And we do have some potential competitors like Meetup.com,
Kevin: Yeah, I met my co-founder through my sister, who actually met him
at her freshman year at UC Santa Cruz.
So we started hanging out, and then we started getting a feel for the way we work,
and our personality traits.
And then we came to the conclusion that it was a mutual fit.
He brings things to the table
that I don t have, and, you know, I bring other skills to the table.
-BN: What would you say is the most important part of a good partnership?
Kevin: I think the most important part of a partnership is 
how well you work together.
Whether or not you can trust them to do the tasks that you set for them.
So for example, if I tell my co-founder that I need these prototypes by the end of the week,
I feel confidence that he s gonna go out and do that.
I think that s really important, because oftentimes,
you see some founders get kind of flaky,
and just, in the worst cases, they just run off
with a few shares of the company without putting in all the work that they promised.
-BN: Mm hmm. What s your corporate structure?
Kevin: So right now, we re incorporated as a C Corp Delaware.
-BN: Okay.
Could you expand on what that means?
Kevin: So, a C Corporation basically makes it so we can appoint a board
and we can have more than 100 shares of stock, which we do plan on doing.
And also, the reason we decided to incorporate in Delaware as opposed to California
is due to the fact that they have a really established law system for businesses,
specifically C Corps, and most lawyers and attorneys are trained with
C Corp startup law, so we found that really helpful.
-BN: Okay.
How big is your legal team?
Kevin: Our legal team just consists of one lawyer right now.
And we actually just engaged with them a week ago.
-BN: Okay.
You just started working with them?
-BN: Okay. So you did the filing yourself?
Kevin: Yup.
What gives your team motivation on a daily basis?
Kevin: Mm hmm. The thing that gives our team motivation
is the fact that we love sports.
You know, we enjoy to watch them and we especially love to play them.
And when we go to the courts, we ve asked people, you know,
 Have you encountered this pain point? 
And most likely, I d say maybe 9 out of 10 times, people say,
 Yes. I have, you know, had this pain. 
And then when I tell them about this app,
just seeing their eyes light up and just saying,
 Oh, I would totally hop on board for that. 
 We wanna have it out to you as soon as possible so you can start using it and improve your game. 
-BN: So what s your revenue model?
Kevin: Our revenue model consists of 3 things.
First, we re gonna have advertisements on our mobile app.
The second one is we re gonna have a freemium model,
so it s gonna be free to download,
but for 99 cents, users can upgrade and start to earn rewards.
And then the last one is we want to really work with rec centers.
So what rec centers like YMCA and Boys and Girls Club do today is they have daily passes.
So we want to have these passes on our platform so users can just start to 
just  discover new places, and just make it easier to sign in.
And with this model, we re gonna take a cut of every transaction that comes through our app.
-BN: What challenges has your company dealt with so far?
Kevin: The biggest challenge was probably trying to raise some money.
I ve done a few pitches,
most of which were unsuccessful,
but what I ve learned from that is that even if you do an unsuccessful pitch,
people are willing to help you out.
And from those pitches, we got, you know, tons of support,
and we also got, you know, just pointed in the right direction.
So, definitely raising money is a struggle in the beginning.
-BN: So how much have you raised so far?
Kevin: So far, we ve raised 25 thousand dollars.
-BN: And what is your full seed round?
Kevin: Full seed round is 300k.
How d you come up with the 300k?
Kevin: I came up with the 300k basically
It s funny because at first,
it just started off way less than that until I started talking to more people.
Basically, I started looking at things I would need.
Obviously, servers were huge. I need that.
Also money associated with developing the app.
And just basically looking at what other companies spend their money on,
like travel, lunch meetings, also legal fees.
A lot of businesses are gonna have the same kinds of expenses,
so we looked at the ones that applied to us and we just put that in our budget.
And also marketing was a big chunk of it.
-BN: Marketing. Have you developed your 4 Ps and a B?
Kevin: No.
-BN: Okay.
Did you have to bootstrap much when you were getting started?
Kevin: Just a little bit.
We got a little bit of help from friends and family.
So right now, I just live in... It s an ideal situation because my parents live in the Silicon Valley,
so since I m taking zero salary, I m just living with them.
Basically everything I get right now, all the funding, is going straight into the company.
Do you have any traction?
Kevin: So far, we have no traction.
We re still working on building the app and we re hoping for an early March beta release.
How long have you been developing the beta?
Kevin: We ve been developing the beta for about 1 month now.
Can you describe the company culture a little bit?
So, the company culture hasn t really been defined yet
since I m working at one space and my co-founder s still in school finishing up his last semester,
but when we do get together, we basically try and have as much fun as possible.
For example, when we were practicing for our pitch competition,
we d do the pitch about 5 times straight,
and afterwards, we d either have a break, you know, a basketball break,
or even just a jam session, you know?
He d get on his guitar and play some Led Zeppelin, we d just kick back.
How d  you end up becoming an entrepreneur?
Kevin: I ended up becoming an entrepreneur just hearing about all these success stories.
And since I m from the Silicon Valley,
it s kinda hard not to catch that entrepreneurial bug.
But the biggest reason I became an entrepreneur is because I went to this school called Draper University,
and from there, I started hearing from people like Nolan Bushnell,*
Bill Campbell, Naveen Jain, basically just these rock stars in the entrepreneur world.
And hearing from them, I said, you know,
 If they can, like, turn an idea into reality, why can t I? 
So that just was really inspiring and just, you know, from there, I started my own company.
-BN: Who s your biggest business role model?
Kevin: My biggest business role model has gotta be Bill Draper.*
I ve known him for a while,
and he s just embodied everything that I think you need to have, as far as being a businessperson.
Bill Draper is a venture capitalist from the Silicon Valley,
and I just really like the fact that he s into the whole idea of giving back,
and just, like, having a really strong sense of business ethics when you re dealing with other people.
And just, his philanthropy work has been outstanding.
How did you build your advisory team?
Kevin: I built my advisory team 
Actually, it was really lucky,
and people will tell you all the time,  You need to be lucky, somehow. 
One of our advisors is our co-founder s dad, and he s a VP at Oracle,* so
we had to use that. And also, our other advisor, he...
is also our investor, and, you know,
we just asked him to be our advisor and he was happy to do it.
Do you have any advice for someone entering a leadership position?
Kevin: The biggest piece of advice I can give is to basically just become a sponge
and just absorb all the information you can.
Because you re gonna be hearing from people trying to give you advice all the time.
It s just really 
It s really necessary that, you know, you absorb all this and you can apply it.
So one thing I found useful is just to, like,
engulf myself by inspirational thoughts and ideas
by just, you know,
going on TED Talks, and just reading a bunch of articles, and just
learning from the pros, pretty much.
They lead by example, and it s up to you to take their advice.
Are there any cultural taboos related to business situations in America?
One cultural taboo, or one thing that you wanna keep in mind is just to be available. So
if someone sends you an email, you wanna make sure you can,
you know, send them at least within 24 hours.
Because a lot of times, people frown upon, you know,
if you take too long to respond.
At the end of the day, you re in the business and
you don t wanna keep anyone hanging or anyone left in the dark.
-BN: Mm hmm. And could you just tell us a little about your crowdfunding campaign?
Yeah, so, right now, we re in the middle of a crowdfunding campaign.
Basically 
The main reason we wanna do it is to validate it with the public.
We want people to basically hear about it
and give them a chance to, you know, get involved and just
be able to say,  You know, I was involved in RecCheck from the very beginning. 
Because I think that s something special that crowdfunding offers.
You get a chance to participate from the very beginning before, you know, you re even public or anything.
-BN: So would you say it s a good way to engage with your customers?
Kevin: It s definitely a good way to engage with your customers,
because you can speak to them directly.
Plus, you know, you re giving them rewards and 
The fact that they re giving you-
or, just pledging money is support enough, you know?
-BN: Okay. Can you think of anything else you d like to say?
Kevin: The only thing I can think of is
to just check out the site at reccheckapp.com,
and if you wanna challenge me to a game of basketball,
then you can reach me at kevin@reccheckapp.com.
Or if you wanna know more about the app, just feel free to contact me.
-BN: Great. Thank you so much, Kevin.
Kevin: Thank you. Thanks for having me.

That s great. Okay, uh, we re almost done.
Cool.
So, about 4 questions away.
Okay.
Um. So that s all the team kind of related questions.
Um, here s the financial related question. How do you make your- Well, how do you make Udemy sell?
Like, what is your monetization strategy? How do you guys make it happen?
Yeah. So, um, we are a marketplace, so we have our, um, buyers and our sellers, and so the buyers are the students and the sellers are the instructors.
And so, um, we provide the platform where that transaction takes place.
So, um, the instructors can put a price on their course, so if I am an expert at karate,
then I m gonna price my intro to karate course at $29. And then if you wanna learn
karate, you wanna be a black belt in, you know, 2 years, then you come and pay $19 for
my course and we pay a portion to the instructors, and then, um, we keep a portion just for the platform fees.
So yeah, so that s how it works.
That s great. Um. Are you an expert in karate?
I am not.
Okay. Good thing you said- Well you can learn, right?
Exactly. Exactly.
Okay. Um. And this one s just a personal question.
Oh, sorry, can you add to that one?
Sure. Please.
Okay. Okay. Sorry.
I m just gonna re-ask it just for clarity.
Sure.
Uh, how do you make your product or service sell and what is your monetization strategy?
Yeah. So what s great about, uh, the marketplace model is that not only does of course Udemy as a company make money
so we can better serve students and instructors, but we have instructors who have made, um,
over a million dollars in our- in the 6 figures, uh, from Udemy, and that s because they offer just such high quality content.
They ve got tons of courses now, a library of courses that students are taking.
So it s been great because, um, there s one instructor in particular, he started on Udemy around the same time
that I started, like the same month, and I ve watched him go from, you know, in his first year,
he went from zero courses on Udemy, zero people on- in his online following circle, um,
to, uh, months later, he- I think he had done $20,000 and he was teaching, um, 17,000
students. And that was in a year and he had 20 courses that he published.
And he s just one example, and he s, you know, a young guy, fresh out of college.
He s got some, you know, some experience, but he knew enough about software to really, like, hone in on it and teach people how to master it.
So he s just one of many, um, um, stories that we have like that, and it s great that
we have a community of instructors and have so many great stories like that.
Mm hmm. It s also like you have your own personal benchmark with him, too. You can kind of, like, trace him and 
I know, that s true, yeah. Like if I had created a course, then I would be where you are, too.
Yeah. Yeah.
Like, yeah.
Have you ever, uh, thought about creating a course?
Yeah! I m definitely gonna do it. Um, I m actually helping my friend with one right now on, uh, drop hacking, but, uh, yeah. I will eventually. Yeah.
Do you know what you d want it to be about?
Yeah, that s a- That s a really tough one. Um  I think  it would be about 
I mean, this is very- It fits my role here, but it would just be, yeah, how to market and sell your, like, online information products, um,
 cause that s- I mean, that s what I know. Um, but yeah, I mean, I m also interested in just, like, the process of building your personal brand.
Um, it s kind of hard because you can either be someone who teaches from a standpoint of,  I have studied others that have been successful, 
or you can teach from a standpoint of,  I ve done it myself. 
And- Or you can be a hybrid.  I ve done it myself and I ve studied others."
And I d much rather be the last one. Um, and so, unfortunately,
I m not at the point where I ve had a million subscribers on YouTube,
or, you know, millions of sales of an info product, so, um. I d like to do it first and then teach, ideally, so we ll see.
That s really cool.
Yeah. What would you teach a course on, aside from karate?
Uh, aside from kung fu? Um. Audio production, like making music, making, uh, making records.
Oh, cool.
It s like my- my main thrust. Uh. I produce videos and I produce music, so.
Oh, cool.
So definitely, like, producing music. I could talk about it in my sleep.
Yeah. What kind of music?
Anything. I mean 
Alright. Last two. Uh, how does your job contribute to the final product of the company?
Yeah, um, so I work directly with the instructors and make sure that they know exactly how to get more students into their courses.
Um, and in that way, they feel that they re successful and they re reaching a lot of people with their content.
Um, and so I do a lot of that through email marketing.
I ll send them tips over email, um, hold contests and fun competitions to get them excited about it,
um, and we also have, uh, some private groups, online forums that I moderate and make sure that we- We ll do, like, an  Ask Me Anything .*
Um, we took a thing from Reddit,** their AMAs,* and we ll have successful instructors come and kind of share best practices with the community.
So, um, yeah. So because of that, I think instructors are encouraged to create even more content,
publish more courses, and are encouraged to reach even more students, which in turn grows the, uh, the marketplace overall.
[*AMA = Ask Me Anything, a feature on the popular forum/linkshare site Reddit where a famous or special person takes questions from users about anything and answers them in real time on the site.]
[**Popular forum/linkshare site]
That s great. Okay, last question. How do you communicate or collaborate across different departments and teams?
And we might have to switch cards for this question, so it might run out. I ll let you know.
Okay, cool. And actually, I kind of did, like, answer it when I talked about the ha- Oh, well, yeah. Okay, I ll talk about one more thing. Okay.
Okay.
Um, so we, um  Yeah. So, once a month, we hold hashes, um, as I mentioned before,
and people from every department will present on something different, so that s a way to really teach each other across departments.
Um, and another way is we use Trello as our, like, internal, you know, product management tool.
So with Trello, you know, I have access to the design board, the engineering board, the content board,
so I can see the product road map and see, like, what my colleagues are working on.
Uh, so those are like the 2 big ways. Uh, I would say the last thing is we have open question and
answers, uh, I think about once a month, and so we can put a question in anonymously in a little, um, pocket in the kitchen,
and then, uh, and we can find out, you know, from Dennis what people are saying in the field or what s going on in the product front.
Um, so I think those are the ways we really encourage cross-communication.
That s awesome. Uh. Anything you wanna add? Anything you wanna say?
Um  No, I don t 
You don t have a great speech you ve been planning?
I know, right?
No cards?
I was like,  I should do the motivational speech like Braveheart,  you know? Um. But 
I would ve been hooked!
We went- My, uh, my friend- My friend Dave, it was like his 30th birthday last year and we went to, um, this club, and so- Apparently they ve done this before.
But we were getting ready to storm the dance floor.
A very important moment in your night.
And so, we were in a huddle, we huddled around. He s like,  Everyone. Huddle."
And we re there, and his friend just busts out with the Scottish accent.
And he s just going for it! He s like,  Ready? On your mark! We re going to take the dance floor! 
You know? And he s like,  Ready? Go!  And then he, like, he, like, ran off to the dance floor, so. Yeah.
Awesome.
I didn t prepare anything like that today, though.
That s an awesome way to finish.
Cool.

I m Danielle Leslie.


and I head instructor promotions here at Udemy.

I help our community of experts promote their courses.

I help our community of experts promote their courses.
So I give them all kinds of really cool tips to get
students enrolled into their courses online.
Okay, yeah, I checked it out earlier. It s a great app.
Cool! Yeah.
Could you briefly introduce your company?
Sure. On Udemy,
anyone anywhere can learn anything.
So if you have a mobile device,
if you have a desktop, as long as you can get online,
you can access our library of courses.
We have over 14,000 courses on our platform,
and it can be anything from, if you wanna become a professional yoga instructor, you can learn how to do that.
If you want to change careers,
and go from being an accountant to a web developer and move to San Francisco,
then you can take our  Become a Web Developer from Scratch  course.
Or if you just want to
learn how to decorate your lampshades on the weekends,
you could do that, too.
So there s a variety of things.
You can really learn anything on Udemy.
Okay, that s awesome.
Can I ask you a brief follow up question about it?
Sure.
How do you feel about how that fits into an older internet model of, like, Lynda.
that used to be the old platform for learning.
Do you feel like this is the next generation of that kind of thing?
Or you feel like this is totally different?
We re much different from Lynda,
I think our value proposition is that we have selection,
we have a large selection.
I think our value proposition is that we have selection,
we have a large selection.
And we have an open marketplace.
So that means anyone can learn anything, and anyone can teach anything.
So, on Lynda, it s pretty restricted to technical skills and software training,
but on Udemy, we have all of those things, but we also have everything else.
And in addition to that,
we don t restrict who can publish courses, and we don t do the publishing in-house.
So that means you, as an expert living in Venezuela,
an expert on surfing, can publish a course on our platform,
and we have a quality standards review that every course goes through.
So as long as you have certain things, certain elements in your course that make you up to quality standards,
then you are able to be live in our marketplace. We ll promote you; you ll be available for anyone.
Those are 2 huge differences,
and so it makes it possible for people like our founder, Eren
Where he comes from, the people in his community and in this small city in Turkey
they can now teach a course on Udemy,
and they can now teach the folks in their community what s important to them, versus
maybe technical topics that are only relevant to people here in San Francisco
or New York, or in the big cities around the world.
Yeah. That was a great answer.
Thanks.
Alright, can you describe your principal target audience?
Sure. As far as our audience goes, it s really anyone who s motivated to learn.
You can put them in different buckets.
So you might be motivated to learn software or technical skills - Sorry,  vocational skills  -
So that could be software training, learning PHP, MySQL, SAP.
You might be someone who s a leisure learner.
So maybe you just want to learn how to surf, or ride a bike, or cook, make a real good cocktail,
then you d have our leisure learners.
and then you might be someone who s trying to learn a new skill.
Maybe you want to become a more effective presenter or public speaker, and you can learn skills.
And also there s academia, so if you re interested in advanced mathematics,
or history, we ve got a couple of great professors that are actually teaching these topics on Udemy
in addition to offline at universities.
Yeah. That s wonderful. It s a really great way to look at how to utilize the internet and utilize networking to learn.
I mean, it s kind of like the Library of Alexandria at your fingertips.
Yes. Yeah.
I love that.
Exactly. Yeah.
I love that.
Exactly. Yeah.
Does your company have any new products or services in the development stage?
Things you re working on, are excited about, that you can talk about.
Yeah. We recently came out with a couple really big things.
The first was Android. We ve been on iOS for a while, like about six months or so
and so Android was huge, and we just launched our Android app.
And so we have a flagship app, so we have the main Udemy app, and then we have many apps.
So we have an app strictly dedicated to Photoshop, or to learning programming, or whatever it might be.
Launching Android was huge, and we have about two people in the office that have an Android device,
so they were cheering in the corner.
We were like,  Whatever, guys. 
The second big thing, we just launched a new course platform.
Like a course discovery platform.
Platform is good.
Yeah, I m blanking. We have a term for this.
Anyway. In addition to Android, we recently relaunched our learning interface.
It s brand new, it looks great, we ve gotten really great feedback from students and instructors.
And so, what it does is it makes it a lot easier for student-to-student interaction.
So there s now a feed where students can post questions and other students can chime in and answer
if they re more advanced on certain topics.
And it doesn t put all the pressure on the instructors to answer 20,000 questions.
And so it s really great for building that peer-to-peer relationship.
And it also just encourages you to just jump right in and resume taking your course.
It really puts the focus on  resume where you left off , jump in, let s get started, let s continue learning.
I would say those are probably the two biggest things that we ve launched recently.
In terms of going forward, we re just really looking at international.
That s a huge initiative for us.
Organically, we ve been growing a lot.
Mainly Spanish has been a big one for us, Portuguese, French, German.
And so, because of that growth, we know that if we just put some people power behind it,
we can really tap into those markets even more.
There are things that people in other countries
want to be learning that we re not yet offering, and so
Assuming...
Do you feel like most of your user base right now is domestic, or do you have any international users?
Have you tracked any of that?
Yeah, definitely. We have students in over 200 countries on our site
but the majority of our traffic is U.S. Yeah.
That s great. I think it s cool.
I think, because there s so many things that start here in the United States,
it s almost also like a cultural information platform as well.
And people can see,  Oh, that s how they built my device,  or...
That s true. Yeah, yeah, exactly.
I like it a lot.
Yeah.
How are you promoting Udemy?
Yeah, let s see. So I want to talk about  Okay.
We use different customer acquisition channels that a lot of other companies use.
Our paid acquisition channel, Google Ads, will do sponsorships with certain people, partnerships
with... let s say there s a huge blog or community of people that are interested in learning design.
Then we might do a holiday promotion partnership with them.
And then we have our organic traffic, so we work on SEO
we have a lot of articles on the blog, and in fact, our blog traffic has just really grown a lot.
We have a gong in the office that we bang whenever we have a big thing,
and that was the gong yesterday, was our blog has really grown and hit a milestone.
SEO is huge.
Another great source of traffic that we have that a lot of mostly everyone else does not have is our instructors.
So the fact that we are a marketplace, we have students and then we have instructors.
And so our instructors drive a lot of students to Udemy because they already have people that love them,
or they have people that are finding them on YouTube organically
finding their learn-to-draw tutorial and then coming to their Udemy course.
So that s another channel that s really strong.
Our instructors bring some of the best students that we have on Udemy,
that are just really hungry for not only their courses but other instructors  courses.
And that s really the power of Udemy
and the marketplace model that we have that sets us apart from everyone else in the online education space
is that we do have the open marketplace, sellers and buyers, or instructors and students.
Yeah. It s a wonderful concept. I mean, it really just kind of clicks. It s like,  Why didn t I think of that before? 
Yeah.
It s really great.
Right.
What are Udemy s top milestones? Your five year plan, your ten year plan.
I think for this one, I ll just talk again about
I think, in general, we just want to be the place that anyone can learn anything.
And so we re really working on just continuing to build a great base of students, a great base of instructors 
We get a lot of new students just through word of mouth,
and the further we get along, the quality of our instructors continues to rise
and they continue to bring more and more of their communities to Udemy.
So we just really wanna see that trend continue and have no barriers to anyone learning anything.
And I think, just strategically, again, it would be internationally, we d like to really grow.
I don t have any specific numbers, but definitely want to have more of a footprint all over the world.
That s great. Any place in particular that you re seeing growing exponentially right now?
Internationally, you re looking forward to kind of being your next big platform?
I think it s still Spanish, for now, as far as I know.
I m sure my director might have a completely different answer,
because he s on the front lines, but as far as I know, I think it s still, like, Spanish is doing really well.
That s great.
Yeah.
Okay, so now I have some questions about the team.
Cool.
Can you give me background, like how things were founded or how you came to right now?
Yeah, of course. Our founder, Eren Bali, he s from a really small village in Turkey,
and growing up, he had one teacher that was teaching five grade levels.
It was a situation where some of his classmates would walk like ten miles in the snow.
He was really motivated to learn on his own, and so he built Udemy.
And now the people back where he lives have access to smart phones,
and if you have an access to a smart phone, then you have access to Udemy.
And that means you have access to all the courses I have access to.
So you now have the ability to learn Excel
or web development, and the fact that you can work virtually means that it doesn t necessarily need to be local trade
but it could be something that s relevant to people across the world.
And you can now earn a great wage doing things like that.
So that was really the motivation and the start point for him, building Udemy.
Yeah. So it s pretty philanthropic as well.
Yeah, yeah, it is. Mm hmm. Definitely. Yup.
Could you describe the culture of Udemy and what the overall company vibe is?
Totally. Udemy is awesome. I mean, I ve worked at a few startups by now
and it s the best place I ve ever worked.
And we have our... So we went through a whole process of determining our company values.
We got into groups and we went down and we whittled it down to our acronym which is  LET S GO 
and that really sums up the spirit here. And it stands for  learn ...
Everyone here, and it might be without saying, but everyone here is a lifelong learner,
and I m just amazed at how smart my colleagues are and how fast they pick things up.
I learn things from them every day.
And the second is  excite , so we really want to excite the students to learn
and we want to excite our community of instructors.
We re really this vibrant place for learning.
And then the next is  take ownership ; so every single person in this company has a role
and they know how they re contributing to the overall goal and the overall mission of Udemy,
and if something s falling short, we take ownership.
Or if something s going well, we take ownership.
So nothing really goes unsaid, or no one gets thrown under the bus
It s everybody taking responsibility, which is a huge part of our culture.
And then  Innovate ; this is inherent in our culture and every day, but every month
we re running different tests, whether it s on user acquisition or it s on the product side.
We re constantly A/B testing different SEO tactics
whatever it might be, to make sure that we re getting the best results for our students and for our instructors.
Next is  s  and that s for  show passion .
That s huge. When we re hiring for Udemy, we look at how passionate they are about Udemy
about our mission, about learning, and everyone here is really vibrant and excited,
about what they re working on. And the next thing is to  get stuff done .
I mean, everyone here is solution-oriented, just driven by whatever we need to accomplish, so we get things done in a timely manner.
And then the last thing is  open up .
So we re a really open, I mean, even physically, we have an open office environment
and we have this intellectual honesty with each other where, if I have an idea
I can go to the VP of marketing and say,  Hey, I think we should try it differently this month.
I ve been testing this on my own. Let s do it.  And he s open to that. So  LET S GO , that really sums up our culture here.
That s great. Danielle, you re doing really great, by the way. 
Oh, cool. Thanks.
Sounds really good.
Can you pick a color that you think sums up what Udemy is? Do you have anything that comes to mind?
Bright green did, but it s probably because that s actually our color.
In your logo.
But I mean, yeah, I think green just because it s bright, so it s very vibrant, it represents growth.
It s also, when you re green behind the ears, you re brand new to something
but that means you have the potential to learn.
You re so fired up.
Exactly. So yeah, I would say that definitely does it.
Nice. How is creative thinking encouraged within Udemy?
You kind of already answered this, but can you talk about how it encourages bonding?
So  Creative thinking. So I would say, for one, we have our stand ups every morning.
So, every team, our three different teams:
we have the content team, which is in charge of acquiring more courses and instructors onto Udemy.
And we have our growth team which I m on, which is in charge of getting more students onto Udemy.
Then we have the product team, which is managing the learning environment.
And so each of us have a stand up every morning, and so during stand up,
we get to hear from our colleagues a learning from the day before.
And so that really pushes up, because it might not be from our day-to-day,
but it might be from an article we ve read on an adjacent industry that we can apply to what we re working on,
and that really encourages us to think outside of the box and think about how we can apply that to our role.
So that s one big thing is our stand ups. And another thing we do is these hashes.
So, once a month, someone in the company gets to present to the entire company,
and they get to present on whatever they re working on, so it could be,
some huge learning in product development that they wanna share,
it could be some trend in learning that maybe Caroline is working on,
because she s in the press and she s constantly seeing what s going on in the field.
So once a month, we do those hashes, and that really sparks creative thinking as well.
Because it educates us about what other folks are doing on the team.
Yeah, it s like a giant brainstorm.
Yeah.

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Yes. I'm David Frazee. I'm the General Manager and Vice President
of 3M's Digital Oral Care business.
So what do you do exactly?
So our business at 3M ESPE Dental,
for my product category,
is for digital dentistry.
Or providing products that are used in the dentist's office,
or the orthodontist's office,
to do visualization and data capture and things like that,
to make impression taking much simpler
than it has been in the past.
And that leads to a whole bunch of opportunities in the future
with digital impression data,
to improve dentistry
by making new applications that, before this technology existed,
could not be done.
Can you describe the technology
and the product you're promoting?
The true definition scanner product
is a device that scans the teeth.
It's very fast.
It can take a digital impression in just a couple of minutes.
That data is then captured and then analyzed
and then uploaded to the cloud.
And from the cloud then,
the consumers of the data would be a dental lab,
or an orthodontic lab,
or some other way to manufacture something for dentistry
is then built using digital data as input.
For example with a CAD cam system, even in a lab.
So with the CAD cam system
you can almost perfectly design a custom crown,
for example, for a patient,
that can be manufactured using high-tech manufacturing things,
like milling or even 3D printing.
Then you can place that in the mouth on the next visit
and you're almost guaranteed to have a perfect fit.
And everybody wants to go to the dentist
and have everything happen smoothly.
So it's a great opportunity to improve oral care,
as well as make it easy on the patient and the dentist.
What does this replace?
What existing technology or product would it replace?
Probably for the last 80 years,
when you went to the dentist and had to have a crown,
or something like a crown, you would have that goo material,
and you bite down on it, for sometimes 5 minutes,
and then you'd pull it out of the mouth,
and that impression is used to create the rest of the restoration,
or some other measurements of the mouth,
for braces and things like that.
So rather than take that analog impression we call it,
let's digitize that at the beginning,
and make it all essentially automated.
And it relieved a lot of the stress and burden
of shipping things around and trying to keep track of it.
Let's just send it through the cloud,
and make it digital all the way, so take a scan,
and the next step might be that your restoration arrives
in the mail to the dentist's office and drops in,
that's the only thing ever created.
As opposed to these intermediate steps.
There's still a lot of value in that process,
but making a digital makes it better, faster, easier for everyone.
Now when most people think 3M they might think of
office, home supplies, so,
how many branches do you have
and how did this one start?
That's a great question. So,
3M is a 30 billion dollar plus company,
sells products all across the world
in all sorts of different divisions or sectors.
There's 5 major sectors,
and in fact the healthcare sector,
which is the business group where the dental division resides,
is over 5 billion dollars annually,
with products for operating rooms and products for doctor's offices,
but also the dental and orthodontic business.
So the dental and orthodontic business today
comprise about 1/3 of the healthcare business.
And it's a very prominent part of the portfolio for 3M
and the innovation that comes from the rest of the company
finds its way to dental very quickly and naturally in 3M.
Where are you currently marketing this
and do you have any globalization plans to market overseas?
We do.
The true definition scanner has been launched in the United States
for the last couple of years,
and is now in 4 or 5 of the major developed markets.
Western Europe, going to Japan later this year,
it's in Australia and New Zealand, it's in Canada.
So all of those have begun to come online
and we'll continue to expand that throughout the rest of the world
over the next couple of years.
Great. How long have you been at 3M?
I've been at 3M 10 years this month.
And so, what all have you done there?
I joined 3M to run the corporate research lab for software electronics
and did that for about 5 years.
And then have worked in the dental business,
first in R&D and now in the business for the last 5.
Almost exclusively focused on
how do we make digital a more natural part of oral care,
and oral treatments,
and bring some of the cool mobile, cloud, visual technology,
into the dentist's office to make the care of patients
and the use by doctors.
Much easier, more natural.
Like the phones and the tablets and things like that.
Was your background in the healthcare industry?
I've been in the healthcare industry for my entire career.
In radiology business prior to this
and then in some other medical imaging applications,
including this one.
Very nice.
All right, well thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you.
All right, thanks.

- Alright, hey!
Can you introduce yourself?
Hi, I'm Wannes Vanspranghe.
I am from Belgium,
and I'm CEO of Around Media.
- Alright, tell me about Around Media.
What do you guys do?
- Around Media takes technology that exists
for a longer period or a short period,
and gives it to the real estate agents
without them having to learn the technology.
So right now, we are introducing virutal tours
on a completely different way than they used to do.
Now, if you want to do a virtual tour,
you rent a photographer
with a big ass camera,
they take the 360 pictures,
they stitch them together,
they give you a flash application
or something.
You upload it to the website,
you upload it to the listing websites-
it's just too much work.
So the real estate agents,
they just don't do it.
So what we do is,
we give them a box
where everything is in there.
So, we have a 360 camera,
we have an iPod touch,
we have a tripod.
They just go to the house,
they take the pictures in like,
20 minutes if it's a big house.
They come home,
they eat their steak dinners
they do the dishes,
they go to the website,
and it's already on there,
it's hosted on our servers-
they don't have to do anything.
It's in the listing sites-
yeah.
It's just taking away the pain and
making them
do what they want to do,
and that's selling.
That's what they do.
- Do you have any competitors?
- Now, right now,
there are people that do the virtual tours,
but they all do it the old way.
There will be competitors,
of course but,
we're based in Belgium,
we're the first in the market,
actually in complete Europe,
and we are plugged in to most of the listing websites,
and we have a bunch of customers,
the bigger real estate agencies
that are using our products and,
we'll keep innovating and
keep putting new stuff inside it.
Like, digital staging,
making sure it can dress the room digitally,
without actually having to put furniture in it.
We'll keep building on it to ensure
we're always ahead of the market.
- So you mentioned-
you're based in Belgium.
Tell me a little bit about your team and,
do you have any plans to expand?
- Yeah.
So our team-
We have a great team.
We are a very young.
Most of us come from the gaming background.
I'm from a real estate communications agency,
and I've been a few years into the market.
Most of our guys have already had a start-up,
or are recently involved in a start-up
in Seattle,
in France,
in the Netherlands,
and yeah-
we actually pick out the best guys.
Now, we are actually looking to hire some engineers
to expand rapidly cause,
that's actually what we have to do in this marketplace.
- What do you look for when you hire?
- Well, we look for very talented people
of course,
that want to put in the hours and,
really are passionate about our product.
Cause without the passion for the product,
it's yeah-
- Do you look at their academic background?
- No, we don't actually.
- We give them a few questions.
We actually let them play a game
called "Beseige".
I don't know if you know it but,
it's kind of a technical and creative game,
and if they succeed,
they're practicaly hired on the spot.
- So it's like a test, kind of.
- Yeah. It's a test.
- Very interesting.
- A different way of looking at a hiring process.
- What else can you tell me about Around Media?
Anything else you want to add?
- Yeah.
Pretty much say what we were going to,
we're actually looking to go to other countries,
we're here at Vegas to expand,
and actually get in to contact with the
really, really big agencies.
Yeah, that's-
- So what's your main goal right now?
- We just want to be the go-to guys
when you have real estate to sell.
We're content creators.
We take away the hassle of creating content
and we let you focus on what you want to do
and that's selling.
And of course,
making money.
- Alright.
Thanks, Wannes
- Yeah, thanks.
- That was very nice.

Can you introduce yourself?
My name is Rafael.
I'm from South America.
And I provide a Bitcoin investing,
and investing in the Bitcoin space in developing countries.
What's your company?
I'm with the BitAngel Network,
and within the BitAngel Network, 
I discovered a company called Moneero, out of Uraguay,
and I'm helping them come into the United Sates right now.
How do you spell the name of your company?
M-O-N-EE-R-O, dot com.
So you said you're from South America?
Yes.
It sounds like you're a total native American English speaker.
What's your background?
I've been educated in the United States.
Right now, I spend a lot of time in the United States,
trying to convince investors to look into emerging economies.
Okay, great.
With Bitcoin, specific.
So, where are you from in South America?
Colombia.
Colombia, okay. Very nice. 
So tell me a little bit more about your company,
and how you differ from other competitors, if they exist?
Okay, so, we have the Starbucks App in the United States, 
that's become the most widely used mobile payment device,
So, Moneero is the Starbucks app for all business brands.
And right now, they have the two major soccer clubs in Uruguay
as their clients, Burger King as their client,
the biggest chain of gas stations as their client down there.
It's a really awesome startup,
we could keep scaling in Latin America,
but I'm helping them come into the United States.
Great, so where all are you based right now?
We've been using Uruguay as our sandbox,
as our test lab,
but I'm based in Chicago,
and we're moving HQ to Silicon Valley as soon as possible.
Why are you choosing Silicon Valley?
Because that's where the majority of VCs are, right now,
and that's just how it is in the tech space.
And we could stay in Latin America, actually, we were
That is a good option, still, to stay there and scale,
but it's like Mark Zuckerberg said.
He could have gone to all the little schools and taken over,
but he decided rather to go to Princeton and Yale
and compete with their social networks,
and I think that's the best model to follow.
Can you tell me, what other clients do you have right now?
Make Safe is a great company out of Scotland.
They're not my client per se, but I champion what they do.
Monetas out of Switzerland, 
which uses open transactions as their technology,
is definitely a company that I champion,
and also Blockstream. That's Adam Back's company.
all funded by Austin Hill. 
And like Austin Hill says, you know, Bitcoin can't be evil,
and these guys have it right.
They really have it down; they understand
what the intentionality behind Bitcoin is,
and it is to empower the individual entrepreneur.
It really is.
And that's what's beautiful about this,
is that we're giving people financial freedom, 
and the ability to be financially free.
For the first time, ever, the ability to be your own bank.
What's one more thing you'd like to add?
I love Bitcoin.
You all should buy Bitcoin.
Everyone should buy Bitcoin,
because it's like investing in the Internet.
All right. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.

I have the pleasure of being with the lovely Bob Lutz.
He's a speaker tonight.
Bob, if you could tell us
a little bit about the Edison Awards and, yourself.
Well...
the Edison Award is obviously given for people who have fostered 
creativity and I've tried to do that my whole career.
I've never been satisfied with the status quo and I was
usually quite vocal about it, which,
didn't always make me popular.
but...
I'm very honored and...
I feel that there are probably other people
who deserve it more than I do but,
certainly very pleased to have been selected
and I think the Edison Awards are a very good thing
because...
we reward financial success
and all kinds of things and...
not enough attention is paid
to the people who genuinely move the world forward
and provide new products and services
for customers.
To make the world better.
What does it take to be a successful innovator?
You know,
do you feel it's something you're born with
is it something that can be learned?
How?
How do you go about
creating innovation?
I think...
being creative is...like everything else.
It's like musical talent or artistic talent.
I think you're born with it.
But...
proper training can make you better at it
So, you could take a person who is not very creative
and,
d
and the right training,
you can make them more creative.
And you can make the very creative person
super creative
but
if you're not born with a certain level
of
inquiring mind
where you're constantly asking yourself,
Why are things this way?
Why can't they be better?
I don't think you'll...
You can become reasonably good
but you can't take a
dull, linear, process-focused person
and make them a genuine creator.
And, as we all know,
there's so many people out there
with brilliant ideas
You know..
How do we know if an idea is good?
How do you know?
How do we know that?
How do you know if an idea is good enough
to create some sort of innovation
within a particular industry?
People who invent things and change things
always have enemies
because this...
a new product or a new idea
or a new way of doing things
always threatens people.
So,
if you're out to change things
and make them better,
you have to live with the fact
that a lot of people aren't gonna like you.
And if you could change one thing
about the world of innovation,
what would it be?
The world of innovation?
I would...
I would want to see corporate America
show more respect to people who innovate.
Because very often,
corporate America
is very comfortable with the way they're doing things
and...
people who rock the boat or,
want to change things, or
want to do something new,
are seen as being disruptive.
And it's a shame, because these people
ultimately add a lot of value.
If Thomas Edison was here tonight,
what would you say to him?
If Thomas Edison was here tonight,
what would you say to him?
I would say,
"Thank you!
Thank you for all you've done.
A role model for all of us."
And for those that look to you for career advice,
you know,
this is their opportunity,
you know, to gain some.
What would you say
and tell a young entrepreneur,
or a young inventor.
What advice could you give them to find success?
Well, I'd say, first of all,
make sure that whatever you're doing,
actually adds value.
And is something that will
change the world for the better.
Something-
It's something that people will actually want.
Because there's a lot of ideas for new stuff.
And,
The kind of thing that can happen to some of these people
is to have somebody take them aside
and say, "Look.
You think this is a good idea
But I'm telling you,
don't do it.
It's not gonna work.
Other than you, nobody sees any value in it."
So,
Get some advice, listen to people,
make sure that whatever you're doing adds real value,
and then really pursue it.
Don't give up.
And as a closing statement,
is there anyone that you're really looking forward to meeting tonight?
Is there anyone you're looking forward to meeting tonight?
Anyone in particular that you're looking forward to meeting or seeing?
I'm very much looking forward to meeting
my fellow Honoree, Professor Christensen,
whom you'll want to talk to
He's as tall as you are, so.
Well,
wonderful.
Well, thank you Bob, so much.

Well, good morning everyone.
It's a pleasure and an honor to be here with you
and later on this evening
I'm really looking forward to it.
According to the organizers
I'm here to discuss driving product excellence through innovation
and that's what I'll try to do
but first of all
I will make the absolute statement
it's probably not necessary for the people in this room
but it's a lesson that is somewhat lost on large
established American enterprises with a unique financial focus
where all of the targets of the company
all of the goals
the whole culture is built around the achievement of financially-defined targets.
So if your overriding business strategy
if somebody's...were to have said to Ford Motor Company or GM or Chrysler
What is your business strategy and what is your purpose?
All of those companies would have answered
To maximize profits
return on investment
increase shareholder value
and become one of the most valued corporations in America.
And nowhere in that description would you have found
To provide superior products to the consumers that they will want to buy
will enjoy driving
and will want to buy again. That just wasn't part of the agenda.
So, if, at
the American automobile business came very close
to disappearing because it was driven by people who had had
...I'm frequently accused of not liking Harvard Business School
which is probably a bad view to have
if you have Prof. Christiansen's presence here today
and I have to admit to having an MBA myself.
I got one like sailors get tattoos
before I knew any better.
But the systematized...
The problem with the way business degrees
and the way business education is run in the United States is
everything is measurable
everything is subject to metrics
if you can't measure it financially
it doesn't exist
and therefore we will not make investments into corporate image
corporate reputation
customer delight
customer response to a new design
because all of these things are immeasurable and the finance person will ask you
Well, if we do that
how many more units will we sell
and how much additional aggregate profit will we make? And of course
these are impossible questions to answer.
The only thing you know is if you do not invest in these intangibles
sooner or later you're going to be out of business.
And my problem was always that a short-term profit maximization process
which almost invariably involves cost reduction
you know
this intense focus on cost...How many of you in this room have MBAs? Okay.
You will remember taking case studies in your MBA courses.
And there was always a description
of some horrible business situation where the company is losing market share
losing profitability
and your job as an MBA student was to read through this case
and read through reams of data and tables and
by doing a good analytical job
you could find out what the company was doing wrong.
And it was usually something like
"Our credit terms are too onerous
and other companies are accepting higher credit losses
but they're making it up in added sales",
or "We have too much capacity,"
or "Our product assortment is too great.
We've got to follow the 80/20 rule
and focus on the 20% of the products
that generate 80% of the revenue."
But there was always some magic silver bullet in there which
if you found it
you were the winner in that particular case.
I never saw one case study in any business education facility I've ever had to do with
where the answer to the question is
"Our product isn't good enough." That was
or "Our design is lousy." That was never the...because those things are not measurable
and they can't be defined in a business case.
And yet...and that's what I think is so terribly wrong.
I don't think there are...
I hope there aren't...
but I don't think there are business schools today that have courses in innovation
leading-edge design
anticipating customer desires and needs
and responding to them.
That's the real driver of the business.
Then, what the controllers and bean counters do to make sure
you know, package order around it
and make sure that people adhere to their budgets
of course all of that is necessary
but that's not the driver of the business.
If you don't have customer delight and customer satisfaction
and product excellence front and center
you're just not going to succeed
and I don't care how good your finance department is
and how good they are at generating a cost minimization model.
I've got an example or two here of innovation gone wrong
because here's the other thing that happens in large corporations.
General Motors, at one point
had a number of consultants
and dealers
and customer feedback
saying "Your cars aren't bad
but they're boring." This is sort of in the late '90s.
So the management sat together and said
Well, we will just...We'll fix this.
We will institute a process that drives innovation.
And the way we'll do that is we'll take
we'll tell product planning from now on
40% of all General Motors products must be innovative. Well...Right
it's innovation by decree.
It was the silliest thing I'd ever heard.
So, product planning started serving up truly wacky stuff
which was innovative
but was in no way customer oriented or focused on excellence, and...
One of which I described in the book "Car Sales:
On Car Guys vs. Bean Counters," and it's...by the way
that whole book describes kind of my lifelong battle in large corporations
and by the way
one of the reasons I...I served first nine years at GM
then 3 years at BMW in Munich
then 13 years at Ford
and then 13 years at Chrysler
and then finally
at age 70
I was re-hired by General Motors for a second thir...One of the reasons for this
you would say
colorful career of many stations
is that I was always kind-of pushing the boundaries of what a large corporation would accept.
I'll talk more about that later.
And you do at some point wear out your welcome.
I was never actually fired
I was just always short of getting fired
but it was...
I almost always got to the point where
I recognized that I had outlived my usefulness for that particular corporation.
But...the other thing
and I blame some of the consultants of the late 80's and 90's that
all the consultants that were peddling the total quality excellence model
you all remember that
I mean every consulting company in the United States
was going around and telling American companies
We can outdo the Japanese in quality.
We can change your culture to one of quality orientation. And they charged
you know, tens of millions of dollars for it.
And basically what they did is
they took the very legitimate...
success of invariable process focus out of manufacturing.
And that is, that was the genius of the Toyota production system
and Eiji Toyota actually invented
it was creating a production system with just-in-time
no waste
no inventory on the line
creating manufacturing processes
that were error-proof so that a part could not be mis-installed
or you couldn't replace one part with another.
And they had all these
very ingenious systems for ensuring quality.
But one of the principles was operator training
so that at every station
the operators on both shifts invariantly performed the operation exactly the same way.
No innovation allowed.
No picking up two parts at once because it's easier.
No devising a better way to get the nut started on the bolt.
Everybody had to do it invariably the same way.
And that discipline
I will tell you
works ...has since been adopted by every automobile company in the world
and every supplier
and probably every large manufacturering company follows exactly the same principles
which is why we now get bulletproof quality
on almost everything we buy
regardless of national origin and regardless of category.
The only exception of course being electronic devices
which still
unlike automobiles
crash twice a day.
And the problem with process is
where the consultants made the mistake is
they thought that they could take
if it worked for manufacturing
why doesn't it work for the whole corporation?
So
the rigors of process-directed thinking were imposed
on those parts of the organization
like design and engineering and manufacturing and research
where a process focus is really the enemy of innovation.
If you go...If you set about designing and engineering a car
generation after generation with no change in method
you're probably eliminating risk of an error
but you're also absolutely setting the scene
for your own failure because you will no longer have continuous improvement
let alone discontinuous leaps in improvement.
One of the...well
some of these forced innovation designs
one of them was...
I know that people from New York don't know a lot about automobiles
but I'm sure most of you certainly
those of you in the design community know what a Pontiac Aztec is.
Right.
That was one of the products of forced innovation.
Nobody liked it, but everybody said
Well, it's innovative. And it's the sort of thing that we should do.
Clearly, innovation that is not an improvement
and by the way, John Hockenberry talked about the Apple Watch.
I'll tell you, as far as I'm concerned, we shall see.
The iPod was a terrific innovation that brought new value.
The iPhone was.
The iPad was.
But, a watch with all those functions? I'm just not sure.
We'll see what happens
but I don't see the compelling newness
and the compelling addition of customer value when all of us have a handheld device that
takes pictures
sends and receives email
is a telephone, gives us the weather
does all...takes movies, stores movies.
We have that device.
But in addition to that device
at the flick of a sleeve
we can see the time.
And I think there's a separation of systems
and a separation of functions which
to me, makes a whole lot of sense.
And I really don't see people even half my age
putting on their reading glasses to check their watch for emails.
But we'll see.
And I mean, nobody has a 100% batting average
and it would be interesting if Steve Jobs were still around
whether the Apple Watch would have happened or not.
At any rate, one of the, when I got to GM
I was, the guys told me that I had better go over
and check what was being done for Buick.
I went over and looked
and here was a mockup of a car
with a steering wheel and no instrument panel.
And I said, "Where's the instrument panel?"
And they said, "Ah. That's the innovation.
It will be a car with no instrument panel."
And I said, "Well
why are we doing this? I mean
where's the customer value?"
Glad you asked! A Buick is a brand for the elderly
and by the way, back then, we accepted that
and GM has since been able to reverse that
with a new product strategy
which has lowered the average owner age of Buick by about 30 years
and that's not including China
where the average age of Buick owners is around
But, at any rate, when I got there in 2001
the accepted wisdom was that
the Buick brand will go away when the last customer dies.
But meanwhile
we're going to make it easier for them.
So they said elderly people are frequently confused
by the instruments and all those switches
so what we're doing is we're taking all that away from them
and giving them a featureless
non-instrumented appearance.
And I said, "Well, how do they control the car?"
Well, it's all voice input.
And I said, "Is this going to work?"
Yeah.
And by the way
we tested it with a focus group.
We had a bunch of people over 65
and we showed them a movie
and in the movie
it showed the driver saying
Windshield wipers, and the windshield wipers came on
and then it showed the drivers saying
Left turn, and the car said "Left turn"
and worked the turn indicator.
And this, by the way
the speed of the car was shown in a heads-up display projected in the windshield.
So they did know how fast they were going.
And how did the focus group respond? Well
in the focus group
when you're showing people a video of how things work ideally
invariably people are going to like it
so they had Iike an 80% success rate on the video.
I then went to drive
I said, "Do we have any hardware?"
Oh yeah. We've got a couple of experimental cars.
And meanwhile, I was, my people in engineering said
Look, Bob, we've been working on this stupid thing for two years.
We're devoting untold engineering resources to it.
It's going to cost $850 per car
and this is in an environment where somebody who proposes something
that costs 85 cents has his sanity questioned.
But $850, and they says
We don't think it's very good at all."
And I said, "Well, why doesn't somebody kill it?"
Well, nobody thinks they have the authority to kill it.
Everybody is sort of hoping that a group consensus will emerge
that this isn't very good.
I went to drive the car at Milford Proving Ground
which is a rural village about 50 miles northwest of Detroit.
We took it off the proving ground and drove it through the village of Milford
and I tried to control this thing
and I luckily had an engineer with me.
And it took such intensive mental focus
to try to think of what you're going to tell the car to do next
because I, he said "Tell it something," and I said
Colder.
And he said "No, no
you can't do that.
You first have to say
Climate control.'"
And I said, "Okay. Climate control."
And the car repeated "Climate control."
And then I said "Colder," and he said
No, no, you have to say 'temperature.'
And so you had to verbally 
scroll through a menu...
to do what normally you would reach out
and you would twist a knob 20 degrees.
And I went like through two or three red lights
intensely focused on what I was doing with the car
and I finally looked at the engineer and said
Let's take it back
this isn't going to work. He said
I agree with you, but, you know
we've been told to keep working on it.
I gathered everybody together
and I said, "I have news for all of you.
I think, as head of product development
I am empowered to make this decision.
And Silent Servant," or Quiet Servant
as it was called
is dead as of right now.
We're going to spend the $850
on other things the consumer will like
a lot better than this system.
And some of the Buick marketing people thought
it was the end of the world.
And frankly
the Buick brand was the better for it
because there are better ways to spend $850
on a car than that stupid thing
which...and, by the way
I think, in terms of wrong-headed innovation in cars
and the, I would say almost excessive use
of electronics in automobiles now
where the chip-enabled capability
that may be beyond what the customer actually needs or wants.
Where electronics make perfect sense in an automobile
and a lot of computing power is devoted to this
obviously, is the whole management of the combustion process
the ignition process
the right timing of events in the engine
and it is the computing technology in those areas that has enabled the modern car to get
the
you know, the holy trinity of fuel economy
performance, and emissions compliance, all in one.
I mean, 20 years ago, honestly, in the industry
with using relatively primitive at that time electrical and electromechanical means
we didn't think we would ever be able to see something like a new Corvette ZO6
which meets the most stringent emission requirements in the world
has 650 horsepower
and gets 25 miles per gallon on the highway.
I was just, come on, you're dreaming.
This is not, but with modern electronics
that's possible.
It's also, another brilliant application is
its so-called stability control systems
where you have all kinds of sensors in the car that sense an incipient skid or loss of
control
and immediately, faster than any human driver can react
the car itself initiates corrective action with differential braking and [conking] the
steering
removing throttle if necessary
and gets the car back on track.
These, to me
are sensible and intelligent applications of electronics.
Less...Then you've got the medium category.
I'm now driving two cars which are semi-autonomous
in the sense that they have lane departure warnings
and so-called adaptive cruise control.
Adaptive cruise control is radar-based.
And so, once you, say
set up your speed for 75 miles an hour
it'll hold 75 miles an hour unless you approach another car
at which point your car will slow down.
It will in fact even slow down to a stop if the other guy
if the person in front of you stops.
You can adjust...the gap on the freeway to be closer or farther away.
The problem with adaptive cruise is that even at the minimum distance
because of the thinking of the product liability lawyers and those who defend against them.
The minimum distance on the freeway is so great that in relatively heavy traffic
people from the right lane
are constantly cutting in front of you
because you have such a big gap to the guy in front of you.
And when they do cut in front of you
the radar senses it
and backs you off and creates a new big gap.
So you wind up being a charitable institution.
You're in the left lane and you're constantly letting everybody in the
from the right get in.
And...obviously
I'm still in close touch with the engineers at GM and they said yeah
well, that's just the way it is.
If you don't like that
you have to override it manually.
Well that, to me
kind of defeats the whole purpose of the thing.
The other one
the other area where I think the industry has gotten carried away
is with the driver-vehicle interface.
Some things are very hard to improve on
and one of them is climate controls
which, the traditional system that's been around for 30 or 40 years
is one knob that's labeled "red" and "blue,"
which basically controls your temperature
or it can actually be marked in centigrade or fahrenheit
but at any rate
that's what controls your temperature.
Then there's one that you turn that has little symbols of where you want the air to come
out
and then the third one is the blower control
which says 1, 2, 3, 4 and has a picture of a fan on it.
Those are all really easy to work
and all you have to do is reach out
grab one, and twist it.
And then you can have, obviously, improvements on that
where you can have a button
where you could digitally control the desired temperature
and the car will hold that temperature and so forth.
That's all good stuff.
But where it gets crazy is when you have a touchscreen
and you look and there's no climate control knobs.
And this is one of the prime reasons
why the Ford motor company went
from being near the top in the annual JD Power quality survey
near the top, and they, within 2 years
were like third from the bottom
and stayed there because the customers hated that system.
It was called My Ford
and in Fords it was called My Ford
and in Lincolns it was called My Lincoln.
And people just
the average person who is not a computer scientist
the average Lincoln or Ford owner
or I would say Cadillac owner
because Cadillac has a version of this as well
is not a 22-year-old tech geek
but is in fact a somewhat comfortable
probably 55-year-old
successful man or woman
who is used to operating controls in a certain way
and then when you now force them to scroll through screens
in the case of the Cadillac
you reach out your hand.
This is, you know, interesting technology sort of
make a gesture towards the screen
and the home page comes up
and then you can select climate control
and once you've got climate control
you've got your other controls depicted on
where the air comes out and whether you want the heat up or down.
But the point is it requires multiple actions and multiple movements and it's not intuitive
and it may be "cool," but it is not practical
and to me that falls in the category of innovation that we really don't need.
I will just say that I've always been a proponent
I'm going to stop any second now so that we can have a little Q&A
(but) I've been a proponent of the so-called
Says who? philosophy of business
and it's especially useful in large corporations.
And always try to
I think large corporations tend to draw people who are conformists.
And if they weren't conformists
they probably wouldn't join a large corporation.
And large corporations also like conformity
because they can't deal with too many people like me all at once.
But if you don't have
in any large organization.
I don't care whether it's a hospital
a university, the military, or a large corporation.
If you don't have people who actively challenge the status quo
and say "Says who?" when somebody says
Well, here's how we do this, and if it seems stupid to you
I always encourage people
if something the company is doing routinely seems dumb to you
and you're told that this is the way to do it
you should say "Says who?" And then
usually, you'll find that the "who" doesn't exist.
It's just something that evolved
or the "who" was such a long time ago that nobody remembers.
I always said, "Don't be afraid of new ideas.
Be afraid of the old ideas
because the old ideas are the ones that will kill you."
I think Corporate America is plagued by groupthink.
A lot of times
nobody wants to be the first to disagree.
Nobody wants to rock the boat
and I always challenge people to please be one of the people
be one of the disruptive people
who are sometimes hard to tolerate inside a corporation
because they waste time in meetings and they argue a lot.
But if you don't listen to them
you're going to be in big trouble as a corporation.
So, I think the real key to driving
if you're in a senior leadership position
the key to driving innovation
is to create an environment of true innovation that encourages innovation as Mr.
Porcini said, not an environment
where the first person who steps out and tries something new
and fails at the new effort is immediately publicly punished
pilloried, demoted, or even fired.
If you do that, you'll never see anybody step forward with anything new again.
It's the late, great Steve Jobs that once said
before he was tossed out of Apple for being too right-brained
too creative, and finally had to be begged to come back to save the company
he said, "Innovation has nothing to do with how many R&D dollars you have.
When Apple came up with the Mac
IBM was spending at least 100 times more on research and development.
It's not about money
it's about the people you have
how they're led
and how much they get it.
And nobody could ever say today that Apple doesn't get it.
So, fostering a creative environment free of excessive shackles of the bean counters
leads to innovation. And innovation
if it's the right kind of innovation
that actually adds customer value
it leads to great products
which in turn lead to great products
and great products and brands lead to exceptionally good products and increased shareholder value.
But, as I always tried to point out
during my, especially my last ten years at General Motors
that's the way it works, folks.
First comes the innovation.
Then come the great products that create customer value
which results in added sales and higher transaction prices
and that is what generates the profit and the return on investment and the shareholder
value.
And that's the way you've got to look at it.
It starts with innovation and product excellence and ends in shareholder value.
And it isn't the other way around
because I lived 40 years of my life in large corporations
seeing the management and finance department and treasury start out with
in 5 years, we want our stock to be at $80 per share.
$80 per share means this much annual profit on sales of this many. And the way they get there is
they work backwards.
And they would define the future product and its content
by whatever it took cost-wise to get to that 80 bucks per share in five years.
And of course
I've been around long enough to realize that with that philosophy
the 80 bucks per share never happened.
Never ever.
In fact, it went the other way.
So, that's the end of my semi-prepared remarks
and if we have any time left over
I'll be happy to take a question or two.
Thank you Bob.

Thank you, Bob.
Thank you also, Walter, for that great introduction.
And just one of the examples of the legends that are here today.
I want to remind you of a couple of things
before we have our break,
at 10:45
That the American productivity and quality center, the APQC,
which is the leading proponent of
business benchmarking test practices acknowledgment,
management research,
and an Edison Award partner.
And we want to thank all the partners here today.
Attendees will receive an email
with an offer of a report
that identifies potential performance gaps
in getting high quality products and services to market.
Your report, which will be tailored to your organization,
and has a retail value of $5,000,
will be offered at no cost to today's attendees.
And perhaps it will have that sequence of how process works,
according to the way Bob defines it,
if you get that email.
So,  I just want to remind people,
that's just one of things that's going on here today.
And I'll have a few more of those a little bit later.
So, how do you think, the
auto industry is doing as an innovation leader,
in terms of transforming society, or contributing
to changes that are taking place in cities
and communities around the world?
Yeah, thanks very much for that question John.
Because I was debating whether or not I should
put the future of the automobile industry
in my basic remarks,
or rely on somebody to ask the question.
I don't think any automobile company,
at this point,
truly grasps what's going on
And what's going on is with the increased congestion
in all of the world's major cities,
we are rapidly approaching the phase of
total gridlock.
At which point, the automobile
will provide no value to anyone,
if we can't use it to get around with.
The...people are also forgetting the whole issue of human fallibility.
In that,
we may- they always said pilots will never be replaced by computers
because the human being is the most
complex, easily programmable,
non-linear servomechanism yet devised,
and it is cheaply and easily reproduced
by unskilled labor.
And...
Edison did not say that.
No, but military pilots say
Yeah, right.
And it was true up until a short time ago,
but now I think we're entering the phase where
the failure rate of human beings is higher
than the failure rate of machines.
And I think the automobile industry
gets it, but the vision is only 2 to 3 years out.
For instance, if you take adaptive radar cruise,
add to it a couple of visibility systems like,
forward-looking infra-red and video,
and you take your lane departure systems,
to where now they nudge you
if you depart from the lane,
that could be inputted to the steering
to where the steering will correct automatically.
I have news,
every car- every week, somebody anounces that
in another two years we'll have cars
that will drive autonomously on the freeway.
And it's true.
And everybody will.
Because everybody's is at the same stage of development.
Why?
Because everybody is using
the same suppliers for the hardware.
So, whether Tesla makes an announcement,
or Cadillac makes an announcement,
Mercedes-Benz makes an announcement,
or Infiniti,
it's all going to be the same systems integrated in the same way.
And on the freeway
with a combination of GPS,
synthetic vision, radar distance warning,
lane departure sensing
you will be able to drive along, from say,
New York to Chicago,
on the freeway fully autonomously.
Secondary roads, different issue.
So, right now the automobile industry
sees this as the future.
But, I'll tell you that's not the future.
The real future is...
the blending of mass transportation
with individual transportation.
I mean, the time frame for this maybe 20 or 30 years
and it's going to require
massive investments in infrastructure.
But here's how it's going to work,
The automobile will be replaced by
electrically powered normed, that is,
modules that are conformed to certain dimensions
and certain touch points,
and certain levels of interactivity with other modules
so that they can be used individually
or linked into a train.
So, what you will do is,
you will call for a module at your house.
It arrives, and it's battery-powered
by advanced batteries
and probably has a 200 mile range.
But the range of the module doesn't really matter
because all it has to do
is get to the freeway.
Which, once you've programmed in your final destination,
you can sit back and relax.
This thing will take you to the freeway
and it's barcoded, you know, as you enter the freeway
your account will be debited.
And then you go into an acceleration lane,
and your module will be accelerated by inductive cables
buried in the concrete.
It'll go from a slow acceleration lane, to a faster one,
to a faster one,
with more and more power.
It will no longer operate on its own batteries.
It will now get the power from the inductive cable.
And finally it reaches the 120 or 150 mile an hour lane
and the traffic flow will open up
just enough to permit your module to slide in.
You don't have to do a thing.
And then the distance between modules
could be inches,
could be a couple of feet.
It doesn't matter.
The whole thing is now like one continuous train
moving at very high speeds.
As you approach your destination,
your module knows what its exit point is.
It'll separate from the flow and go into decel lanes
And then finally
the barcode will be sensed that the exit because-
so that the system
knows how many freeway miles you used up.
And then the module will be
automatically back on its own power
and it will take you to your final destination.
At which point, you get out,
and you basically send it away.
So, this is the small size, the flexibility, the adaptability,
the ability to blend into larger streams
moving at very high speeds.
That, to me, is the future of individual transportation.
This future is clearly
not popular with the automobile industry
because what happens to brands?
What happens to the BMW oval?
What happens to the Mercedes grill?
What happens to "mine's bigger"?
Or "mine's more expensive,"
if all of these modules
are the same size and the same shape?
So, it's not a pleasant future,
but I really see the...
And I almost hate, as a car guy, I hate myself for saying this...
The automobile as we know it today,
individually owned, individually driven,
individually garaged, individually maintained
is going to go exactly the same way
as the horse went
at the beginning of the 20th century.
Where the horse stopped being
a means of locomotion for mass transportation,
or individual transportation,
goods transportation in inner cities,
and the horse was replaced
by the internal combustion engine.
So, what happened to the horse?
The horse obviously didn't disappear.
The equine industry today,
is a multi-billion dollar industry.
Horses are living comfortably and well-tended
on dude ranches and horse farms,
riding stables all over the country.
So the horse has survived,
and already we're seeing automotive country clubs
Because if you own
a Ferrari, Lamborghini, or a Corvette Z06,
there's really no way to legally
explore the potential of the car on public highways.
So, there's one in upstate New York, in Monticello,
which is, two race tracks,
and you can buy a membership in this club.
You could take your...
It's the "mine's bigger club"?
Yeah, sure, absolutely.
No, "mine's faster."
"Mine's faster club." Yeah, yeah.
So, I think the automobile, as we know it today
will become a cottage industry.
Rare cars will continue to be bought and sold,
but the cars driven by individuals
on public highways,
are going to be a thing of the past, and
I think nobody really, truly grasps that vision yet
because it's... in a way for the automobile industry
building norm modules that are not brandable
is equivalent to... a sad ending to an industry that is...
I- One of the things I liked
about Mr. Porcini's comments is he
talked about the emotional content of brands.
I didn't know that Pepsi-Cola
had much emotional content but
I'm sure it has in its measure, but I will tell you...
You know, Alex  Rodriguez already called me
about those Gatorade, individual pouches.
You know, he wants to know if they're legal.
But I will tell you...Yeah
Automobiles' brand awareness, brand recognition,
and the internal belief
that people have about certain brands
is the dominant factor.
Well, let me ask you one last question
we'll be right on time here.
And again referring to Mr. Porcini's remarks,
you'll notice that
he may get his produce from FreshDirect,
but if you look carefully at his shoes,
his shoes do not come from FreshDirect.
And leave it to an Italian designer to
tell us that basically
the difference between design and innovation
in the WWII era and the 3D printing era,
is that you move creating design
from the garage to the bedroom.
Only an Italian designer can say that.
And they're absolutely right. That's for sure.
So, okay, so with that in mind,
how much would you say...
Tiger Woods' shenanigans
contributed to the emotionally change in the Buick brand?
Oh...
Because you talked about Buick. You brought up Buick.
I think we had Tiger Woods at a time
when Buick still believed that traditional sporting figures,
and the fact that Tiger Woods was a double minority,
in being African-American and Asian,
he was seen as a 3-fer because...
Well, it didn't work for Tiger, but it worked for Buick.
I don't think it worked for Buick.
Really?
No.
I really don't think...
I think celebrity advertising rarely works for anybody,
especially not in automobiles.
Because... unlike branded products
like toothpaste and soft drinks
automobiles require a fairly significant investment.
The other thing about automobiles is
everybody else sees what you drive.
And the reason
you don't see so much design change
in refrigerators and washing machines
is that once you have them,
they remain in the quiet, hallowed halls of your kitchen,
and nobody sees that
you've got a 20-year-old refrigerator.
And as long as it still works, it's fine.
But try driving a 20 or 25-year-old car around,
unless it's, you know, a prestigious make,
and your friends will say,
"Hey, don't you think it's time to get a new car?
I mean that old thing of yours..."
The thing that drives so much of car market, and again,
and Mr. Porcini related to it,
is the car, more than anything else,
becomes your exoskeleton.
It is what you would like to be
and the way you would like others to see you.
And people select their car brands on that basis.
And I think celebrity advertising
just runs counter to that.
And besides, back in those days,
a Buick had Tiger Woods,
but it didn't have the products that it has today.
Right.
Bob Lutz, thank you so much.
Thank you, sir.

Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Hi Jonathan. My name is Jack Drea 
and I am the CEO and co-founder of Bonza Quote.
Bonza Quote is Kayak for DIYs and tradesmen.
It scans the market to find the best price
for your list of building supplies
directly from your smartphone, tablet, or PC.
So we make it really easy for the user to find the best price
for their DIY project 
or for a tradesmen looking to get the best quote 
on his list of materials.
So we just make it really easy.
Do you have any competitors?
So we have competitors in vertical industries 
but we are probably the only website at the moment
which is focused purely on the DIY
and building supplies network. 
So we come from the industry.
We come from a family construction business.
So we understand the industry, we know the retailers,
and we're really just trying to make it really easy for users
to be able to just pull their phone out of their pocket
and say 
"I'm doing a DIY project this weekend.
I just want to know who will give me the best price."
So that's what we do.
So how long have you been in business?
So we came up with the idea November of last year.
And what we did was we went directly to the retailers.
And we said to the retailers,
"If we build this product, will you pay for it?"
And we're lucky that they said 
"Yes. We'll back you."
Because they knew that the industry was gonna be changed
and they didn't wanna be left behind.
So once we had that support we said 
"Okay we need to build the product."
And so we've gone out and we've built a really strong,
world class team
and we've built a product
that will be launching in Ireland this summer
and the UK at the end of the year, 
and in the US next year.
What we're here today to do is market validation.
So we were selected for the pitch competition yesterday.
600 international companies applied.
We were one of 60 chosen.
One of 2 Irish companies for it.
So, huge opportunity for us.
And this is really just a great opportunity for us
to get our... to conduct market validation in the U.S. market.
Wow. That's amazing.
Tell me about your revenue model.
So the way that we work is 
we charge a percentage of the users' final purchase price.
So the way it works is,
for example if you went onto our website,
did a price comparison,
saw that one retailer was the best,
went onto that retailer's website
and then purchased a list of products,
we would take a percentage of that user's final purchase price.
Great. All right.
Is there anything else you'd like to add?
No, I think just to your viewers really,
I understand that obviously
it's for companies that are expanding into Asia
and it's really... we're focused on the DIY market and the trade,
but I think this is a concept that could work anywhere.
Not only in the U.S. and Europe,
but it could also work farther afield.
All right. Thank you very much.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.

Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Yes. My name is David Klein, co-founder and CEO of CommonBond.
CommonBond is a student lending marketplace platform
here in the US. We focus on borrowers and investors.
Borrowers on our platform can save about $10,000 
over the life of their loan, whereas investors receive 
a competitive financial return.
How did you become interested in this industry?
Oh, it came from a very personal pain point
in which I had to pay my way 100% with student loans 
going to business school. And in doing so, 
what I realized is that 
going through either the federal government or private banks, 
I was going to pay an interest rate that was very high, 
the process was very complex, 
and the service was particularly poor. 
And so, I realized there were other people just like me
who were credit-worthy borrowers, 
who were getting charged rates that were too high, 
process too complex, and the service was too poor, 
so I decided to do something about it. 
Met my two co-founders while at business school, 
Wharton, the university of Pennsylvania, 
which is where we all met. 
And we decided to do something about it.
What advantages does that give to people who have student loans 
versus going through, say, the government?
Sure. Three main advantages. The first advantage is savings. 
So we provide an interest rate that is lower for our borrower
than what they can get elsewhere.
And the reason we're able to do that is 
because we focus on credit-worthy borrowers, one, 
and two, the traditional incumbents, 
the federal government and the private banks,
are charging rates higher than they need to relative to the risk,
underlying risk of the borrower.
So that's big point number one, is savings.
Big point number two is simplicity.
So we simplify the entire process.
We allow for you to come on to our website
and find out your rate in a matter of 2 minutes.
Some competitors take two days to give you an actual rate.
And then third, service. So we provide best-in-class service.
We hire from some of the best schools in the country,
people to put on the phones and on email and on live chat 
directly with our borrower, and turn what to many is a complex issue
into something that is a lot more simplified
and easily understood.
How many employees do you have, and what all do they do?
We have about 30 employees.
Our employees are separated into a few different departments.
We have a marketing department, an operations department, 
a technology department, finance department, and a risk department.
Before, you mentioned about your clients a little bit.
Can you go more into that? How many clients do you have,
or who they, normally?
Sure, we have about 2,000 borrowers to date.
We expect that number to be well over 7,000 by the end of this year.
Our clients generally, on average, are about 31 years old.
Their average credit score is north of 760.
They're making over $100,000 a year, and as I mentioned before,
they're saving about $10,000 by going through us versus others.
How did you become an entrepreneur, and start this place?
So, I come from a family of entrepreneurs.
I was actually the first in my family to go work at a company.
I started my career at McKinsey,
where I was advising mostly financial services clients,
and then I went over to American Express
and spent a good amount of time there
working what I like to call the corporate trenches,
really focusing on implementation and execution,
not just strategy, which is a lot of what McKinsey focused on.
So, having worked for companies, I was kind of the black sheep
in the family, you know,
everybody has historically been an entrepreneur themselves,
whether it's starting a retail shoe store,
or whether it's starting an aviation company,
or anything else, all of which my family has already done.
It took me a while to finally kind of 
come out of the company-based world that I was
corporate world that I was living in, and move
to the entrepreneurial world that I was much more used to,
growing up.
I always knew that I wanted to start a company,
but I actually made the conscious choice to put myself
in corporate America, for about 5 to 10 years, at great companies,
learn a lot of important things, meet some really smart people, 
and then take those things with me to start my own company,
so that's exactly what I've done,
so at McKinsey, I learned a lot about strategy.
At American Express, I learned a lot about implementation,
and at a startup, you need to have 
both strategy and implementation in spades,
and so that's been very helpful in building the company out.
You talked a little about your education at Wharton.
Can you tell me what you studied, and then 
at the other companies you worked at,
what was your role there?
Sure, so at Wharton, my major was entrepreneurial finance.
I only spent one of a total of two years there.
I ended up deferring my second year of school
to continue working on CommonBond,
and so I'm still technically deferred,
In my second year at Wharton.
I've been focusing on CommonBond about 3 years, ever since.
And whether I go back or not, I don't know
because we're continuing to focus on CommonBond and build it out.
At American Express, I had two roles.
The first was leading a team responsible for 
about a quarter of a billion dollar a year business 
on the consumer card side.
And then my second stint was in a chief-of-staff role
to the number 3 executive over there, 
who now happens to be the CMO of Time. 
And then, at McKinsey, I advised mostly financial services clients.
Do people need any special qualifications to work here?
It depends on, probably, what department they're in.
In your finance department, for example.
Everybody here has a basic education, 
so a bachelor's degree from university. 
Some people here also have more education, 
so a master's degree. 
There are a number of MBAs who work for us, 
who come to us from Columbia, Dartmouth, UNC, etc.. 
And then there are also certain specifications or qualifications, 
additional qualifications that some of our people have. 
So for example, on our finance team, 
we have a guy by the name of Mike who's also a CPA, 
a Certified Public Accountant. 
We also have people joining our team
who have various licenses in the financial sphere. 
And as we continue to grow, 
we'll likely have more people on our operations team 
that are licensed underwriters.
Do you think you might expand 
and provide additional services in the future, 
or will you stick with mostly student loans?
We'll likely expand in the future. 
Student loans is where we start, but it's not where we stop. 
That's where we start the organization.
The value of what we're building really has more to do 
with our customer than it does this particular asset class. 
So what that means is, the customer I'd referenced before:
31 years old, great credit, 
they have a good amount of disposable income coming in
to service their debt, they'll have financial needs
that evolve over time. 
And we want to be the platform 
that provide them with financial products and services over time. 
So you could expect we'll be in mortgages, 
personal loans on the credit side of the equation, 
but even on the asset management side of the equation, 
we'll likely have services for them there too.
Is this a competitive industry that you're in?
It's a competitive industry, I'd say, yes.
And I'd say increasingly so.
If you look at the size of the market, 
it's huge.
Student loan debt in the United States right now is about $1.2T.
That is a lot of debt.
A lot of that debt can be refinanced through platforms like ours
into lower rates, 
and thereby saving our borrowers a good amount of money.
We're not the only ones who recognize this.
We were one of the first to recognize it, but we're not the only,
and so there are more people coming in to
more companies coming into the space to play a little bit.
So, would you consider this FinTech, or is it something different...?
It's absolutely FinTech. 
It's certainly financial in nature, and technological in nature,
so financial technology: FinTech.
What is the difference 
between FinTech and a traditional financial company? 
What "tech" comes into play?
I'd say that the difference 
between a traditional finance company and a FinTech company 
is that a FinTech company like ours heavily leverages technology, 
or you'll hear this phrase "a tech-enabled platform." 
So, do traditional companies have technology too? 
Sure, they have technology, but it's old, 
it's very difficult to work within, 
the people that you need to hire 
in order to work that technology 
just because the language is so old 
and the technology is so old it is incredibly costly. 
We, as a FinTech company, 
get to be on the cutting edge of technology. 
We're building from the ground up technological architecture. 
We're building from the ground up different pieces 
that plug in to the technical architecture. 
And it allows us to act much more quickly
and incorporate customer feedback more flexibly over time.
Would there be any advantages to a traditional finance company?
As a consumer?
Yes.
The short answer is "no."
I can give you a nuanced answer.
The nuanced answer is that, theoretically, 
from a cost-of-capital perspective, 
the traditional finance company should be able 
to acquire their capital at much lower cost 
than we can as a new player. 
And that should translate into a better rate to the consumer. 
And while they do have access to lower-cost capital than we do, 
it's not translating to a better rate to the consumer. 
We're the ones providing a better rate to the consumer. 
So they're not leveraging that advantage. 
And so, because they're not leveraging that advantage, 
you get the savings, a borrower would get the savings
through us in addition to the tech-enabled benefits
like simplicity, speed, and great service.
What advantages does working in New York provide you?
Advantages of working in New York. 
Compared to, say, Silicon Valley?
Ah, compared to Silicon Valley.
I think New York versus Silicon Valley is a frame of mind. 
Or rather, it's a, New York versus Silicon Valley is a state of mind. 
There's some people who just click with the California way 
of living and doing things, and there are other people
that just click with the New York way of doing things. 
New York is more hustle-bustle. 
It's more, there's a lot more energy. 
A lot happens; this feels like kind of the center 
of where everything goes on. 
Silicon Valley, though, does have a very strong 
infrastructure for startups, and there are a number of startups, 
in FinTech, that are out in Silicon Valley as well. 
I personally happen to jive with New York more than Silicon Valley. 
I think a lot of the people that we have here jive with New York
more than Silicon Valley, so I think it's more just a profile of person, 
or how each city attracts a different profile of person. 
Now, I will say, one of the benefits of being in New York is
that we're close to a lot of the capital, 
and we're a very capital-intensive business. 
So instead of flying out from San Francisco or LA to Midtown, 
I can literally hop a subway, and within 30 minutes door-to-door, 
I'm in somebody's office. 
So that is a nice benefit, number one. 
Number two, from a consumer perspective, 
we're on the East Coast, 
which is where most of the schools are, 
and which is where most of the students, 
once they graduate, settle. 
And so it's good to be closer to our borrowers physically.
Do you have any plans to expand,
and if so, could you explain that?
We do have plans to expand across asset classes, 
as I talked about before. So not just student loans, 
but then a number of different credit products as well, 
home mortgages, personal loans, 
as well as asset management products. 
And then geographic expansion. 
In terms of geographic expansion, 
we will likely think about it; 
we do think about it currently more in terms of 
folks from around the world who come to the U.S. to study, 
being able to provide them with better financing options
to pay for school as well.
What advice could you give to people 
who are trying to get into the finance industry?
In the startup finance industry, or in finance in general?
Let's say in FinTech.
Okay.
So, for people trying to get into FinTech, 
I think having startup experience 
or experience in a smaller company 
is really critical, because a lot of the FinTech companies right now
are startups or small companies or emerging companies.
And what we've noticed here is
that the people who have experience in smaller environments,
not just larger corporate environments,
are the ones who tend to fit better
because they understand that the pace is a lot faster
than anything that they've experienced before.
And they're not in any way scared or alienated by that.
Now that you've talked a little bit about FinTech in general,
how do you do things differently from other FinTech companies?
How do you compare? And also, 
if you could mention your company culture...
Sure. So, we do a few things differently as a company 
than traditional companies. 
One, we price according to the underlying risk of the borrower. 
Two, we provide a very robust set of refinance products. 
In fact, we're the most robust set of refinance products 
of any student loan refinancing platform in the U.S.. 
Three, we underwrite in a way that others don't, 
so underwriting meaning we're asking our borrowers 
a series of questions to understand their likelihood
of repayment over time, and if that likelihood is high, 
we're more likely to underwrite them, or provide them with a loan. 
The fourth thing that I think we're doing differently is
we're using technology to simplify and speed up the process, 
and finally, I'd say service. So again, we invest heavily 
in who we hire to deal directly with our customers, 
ensure that we're answering questions the first go-around, 
that any issue that might seem complex to the user 
we're simplifying in conversation and really act as an advocate 
for our applicants and borrowers throughout the entire process. 
In terms of culture, I'd say the culture that we're developing, 
I'll say it this way. 
We're looking for four things when we hire people internally. 
Strategic acumen, executional quotient, internal drive, 
and being a good person. 
So, strategic acumen is all about taking initiative, 
being able to make decisions independently, 
and having good business judgment. 
Executional quotient is all about getting stuff done. 
Can you get stuff done efficiently and effectively? 
Third, internal drive, this is a very intense environment, 
or it can get pretty intense, 
where a lot of the time we seek external motivators. 
A lot of the motivation has to come from within, 
so do people have that internal fire that drives them to work
really hard every day regardless of what's happening around us? 
And then fourth, being a good person is pretty self-explanatory. 
We just want people who are good. 
Good people.
Could you explain your business model? 
How do you guys earn money, and do you advertise as well?
We certainly advertise to our consumer. 
We advertise both online and offline. 
We have paid channels and unpaid channels. 
So things like organic search, paid search, remarketing, 
Facebook marketing, other kinds of social media marketing, 
content marketing. We do all of that stuff. 
That was your second question, was how do we market, 
and your first question was...?
Your business model.
Business model.
So the business model is for every loan that we underwrite 
and disburse to our borrower, that loan is then purchased
by a set of investors on the other side of
our two-sided market for a premium. 
And that premium we capture as revenue and cashflow.
Are there any misconceptions about this industry?
Misconceptions? 
I think there are some misconceptions about the industry. 
I think one misconception is that we're in a student loan bubble. 
So we talked a lot, you know, 
we've heard a lot about economic bubbles 
and the fact that the financial crisis in '08-'09
was certainly a mortgage bubble. 
There's some people who believe
that student loans is a bubble as well, 
just because the rising cost of education, 
the increasing need for financing that education, 
so the financing of education has increased significantly
over the past ten years, even over the past five years. 
I think that's a misconception, 
because a lot of what's driving that increased need for financing
is that more people are going to school. 
And so you have more people going to school, 
a more educated populace, that's a good thing, number one. 
Number two, a lot of what's driving the default rate, 
that's the idea that people don't pay back their loans, 
a lot of what's driving that is more proprietary for-profit schools 
as opposed to your typical public or private university 
that you generally think of. 
So those are the two drivers 
of what are driving the increased financings of education 
and the increased defaults of education.
I'm not sure if you would know this one or not, 
but how would the U.S. financial industry differ 
from the finance industries in other countries?
I can tell you this, that as it relates to the peer-to-peer industry, 
which has since become known in the US 
as the marketplace lending industry, 
we differ from the UK from a regulatory perspective. 
So, there is regulation in the US that makes it very difficult 
without spending a lot of money to seek investment 
from regular individual investors onto your platform 
that go directly into the student loan in exchange for
a competitive financial return.
In the UK, there isn't that same regulatory barrier, 
so any regular Joe in the UK can invest on a platform like Zopa, 
as an example, 
which is one of the first peer-to-peer lending platforms in the world. 
And Zopa doesn't have to expend great cost, 
either monetary or personnel-related, 
in order to get that individual to invest on the platform 
in any denomination. In the US, that's different. 
And so that's why in the US, a lot of the capital on our platforms
is institutional capital 
coming from large institutions as opposed to individuals, 
which is where a lot of the peer-to-peer lending platforms
in the UK have sourced historically their capital.
Before, you were mentioning 
how some people just jive with New York or Silicon Valley. 
How would you describe the New York business culture in general?
The New York business culture, I think, 
is very sharp. It's very quick, fast-paced. 
It's one that values quick thinking and an ability to process quickly. 
So I think that in everything I just said, 
fast or quick was a version of what I had said. 
It's just a very quick, fast-paced culture. 
There's a lot happening, and you've gotta stay on your toes. 
So I'd say that's highly valued in New York.
Is there anything else you would like to mention, 
especially to the global audience or just anyone in general?
No, I think we covered a lot.
I think we did too!
All right, well, thanks a lot, and I appreciate your time.
Thank you.

Hi, my name is Clayton Christensen.
I'm a professor at the Harvard Business School in Boston, Massachusetts,
and I've spent the last 25 years of my life studying innovation.
And so for me, to be able to be here at this event is a real honor.
And I'll never figure out why they decided to give me an award here.
But I really am honored that they would let me come.
You can see here people who...
think differently than the rest of us.
And believe that they can achieve things that others haven't been able to achieve.
And so it really is inspiring to be here.
If Thomas Edison were here,
I think he would just sit in the audience
and applaud, and then he would applaud, and then he would applaud.
Because probably more than anybody that we know in the history of the world,
he was not willing- or not daunted by failure.
And he believed that,
If you think something will work
and it doesn't, you learned a lot
because you learned that it didn't work.
And people who are afraid of failure
will never know what they could learn when they failed.
That's fantastic.
I mean is there anything else,
any advice that you could give to...
next year's nominees and
future presenters?
For those of you who might be applying or being considered 
for next year's nominees and presenters
it's hard to know to give advice to people that you don't know.
But I would say that on average
you can believe that you are the only person in the room at the time
who knows your field like you do.
and if all you do is convey to them what your field is about
and what your innovation is
they don't come away with anything that is generalizable
that would be useful for them.
And so, if I were going to give advice, that's what I would focus on.
Of course, you need to explain to us what you're doing and why,
and why you think it will be critical.
But if you can, on top of that, tell the rest of us what you're learning
as you're trying to put this innovation into the market
what principles are emerging that would be useful for everybody there.
I think it would really make the thing even more useful
than it is already
Last question.
If you were able to meet Thomas Edison today,
what would that conversation be like?
If I were able to meet Thomas Edison today,
what would I tell him?
And I think what I'd tell him, is that
we've learned a lot about God.
And at least for me, what I've learned about God
is that, He exists inside of the universe,
and His power comes not from just from willing things to be so
but rather he understands the laws of the universe so completely
that because he understands the laws of the universe,
He can harness those laws and do the remarkable things that He does.
And there are some people who are really working hard to understand the laws of the universe.
And if we really understand them
then it turns out that the world is not quite as unpredictable and...
not as unpredictable and random 
as it seemed to be when you were in the Menlo Park labs...
Yeah, when you were doing your work in the Menlo Labs.
Fantastic.
Did that work okay?
That was great. Yeah.

Well, I'm sure honored to be with you.
And thanks to those who have put this on,
it's been, for me, magnificient, to listen to you.
I thought I would describe a couple of things
for 40 minutes or so, and then,
give another 30 minutes for you
to ask questions and criticisms.
These are things that I've learned
about how to do research in the field of innovation 
because it's my business; I do research about innovation.
And one of the things that I've realized, little by little, is that
we, at the Harvard Business School
do a really bad thing
when we teach our students
that they should be data-driven,
and fact-based,
and analytical.
And the reason why
is that data is only available about the past.
And what's worse than that,
is that God did not create data.
People created data.
And every time somebody creates a piece of data,
that person has an agenda.
And they include some pieces that are relevant
and they, they omit other data that ought to be relevant.
And so, when we learn to look into the future,
with data,
we're relying on things that are very unreliable
and always late.
And in contrast,
if you have a theory,
and... Managers don't give credence enough to theory
because
it's associated with the word, "theoretical,"
which connotes, "impractical."
But a theory is a statement of causality
if it's a good theory.
It's a statement of what causes what, and why.
And what that means is that,
every time you and I, as innovators,
look into the future and take an action,
or put a plan in to place,
our actions and plans are predicated upon
one or more theories, in our minds.
That if we do this,
we'll get the result that we need.
And so, I've been trying to understand
different dimensions of innovation enough
that I could begin to publish some ideas about theory
relating to innovation.
So to introduce why I have become such a convert to theories,
I'll explain what happened to me
in around June of 1999.
And I was in my office at the Harvard Business School,
just minding my own business.
And out of the blue,
William Cohen, who was the Secretary of Defense
in the Clinton administration
called me up, just out of the blue.
I'd never met him before.
And he said, "I read this book of yours called,
The Innovator's Dilemma,
and I wondered if you'd be willing to just come down to the Pentagon
and present your research to my staff?"
And, I had had a peripheral position in the Reagan administration,
and I'd been in the Secretary's office in the Pentagon,
and I knew what it looked like,
always very busy.
And when Secretary Cohen asked me to present to his staff,
in my mind, I had a few majors and second lieutenants
and college interns, you know.
Anyway, so I show up there,
and he takes me in to the cla- to the conference room
next to his office
and, there on the front row,
were the chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
And I thought,
Oh, that's what the "staff" means, huh.
And then, on the second level,
were the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, Air Force,
Commandant to the Marines Corps.
Behind them,
were the undersecretaries and deputy secretaries of defense.
And behind them
were all of the other assistant secretaries of everything else.
And, Secretary Cohen said,
"You gotta understand,
that this is the first time since I began serving as Secretary
that I have been able to assemble the entire staff."
And so I said,
"What do you want me to do?"
And he said, quote,
"Just present your junk."
So, I did.
And I got from that presentation the first two slides.
And I want to just walk through these two slides
to give you a sense for what a theory might entail.
So this is the theory of disruption.
If I come out here, can you hear okay?
And there are two elements of this theory of disruption.
The first is that in every market,
there's a trajectory of improvement
that innovating, that customers are able to utilize, over time.
Now, in every market, there is a distribution.
So at the high end in every market are complicated customers
who have complicated problems.
And at the bottom of every market,
there are simple people who have simple problems.
But that's the first element of this model is that, in every market,
there's the ability to consume improvement.
And then, the other element of the theory is that, in every market,
there's a different trajectory of improvement
that innovating companies provide
as they keep introducing better and better products.
The most important thing about this
is this trajectory of technological progress
almost always outstrips the ability of customers to use the progress.
And what that means is a technology which,
on the left hand side,
is not good enough for what customers need,
later, a bit later, they will have shot way beyond
what the same customers could use at another point in time.
And a good way to visualize this is go back to the mid-1980s
when we were first learning how to do word processing
on those early personal computers.
Do you remember how often you had to stop your fingers
to let the Intel-286 chip catch up?
Because the world's fastest processer could not keep pace 
with our fingers, on the left-hand side.
But now, if you look inside of your laptop, at the latest Intel chip,
we only use about 15% of its capability,
because they have way overshot what mainstream people can use.
Now, some of the innovations 
that helped the providers move up that blue trajectory
are just incremental improvements.
Others are dramatic breakthrough improvements.
But their purpose is the same.
And that is, they are trying to make better products
that they could sell for better profits to their best customers.
And what we found, we called them sustaining innovations,
almost, always, the companies that are the leaders in their industry,
on the left-hand side,
before these battles of sustaining innovations begin,
still are the leaders in the industry when these battles are over.
And it doesn't matter, technologically, how hard it is.
If this innovation that you're considering
allows you to make better products
that you could sell for better profits to your best customers,
the leaders always figure out how to win.
But then I absorbed, showed, to this group,
that there was another type of innovation 
that we called disruptive innovation.
And I explained that we used this word, "disruptive,"
not because it was a breakthrough, but rather
it's an innovation that makes a complicated, expensive product
much simpler, and so much cheaper,
that a whole new population of people at the bottom of the market
now can own and use the product.
And then from that platform, down there,
it can improve to the point where it intersected with-
with what customers need.
And I explained that, almost always,
an entry company killed the leaders when disruption occurred.
So then I said,
"Let me explain how this happened in the steel industry."
And I picked steel because it's totally different in defense,
as you can imagine.
And in the steel industry,
it's structured just like that model, on the prior slide.
In this market, as in every market, there are tiers.
At the bottom of the market are the simplest products,
concrete reinforcing bar,
where you and I can make rebar this afternoon, if we wanted to.
And at the high-end of every market is sheet steel
that's used to make cars. It's very hard to make.
Historically, almost all of the steel
has been made in integrated steel companies like US Steel.
It would take, today, about 10 billion dollars
to build an integrated steel mill.
But there's a new technology, called minimills, that is disruptive.
And minimills melts scrap in electric furnaces.
And because of that positioning, they can make steel.
You can probably have three of these electrice furnaces in this room.
And because you can make steel in such a small chamber,
they don't have to scale up the downstream processing steps.
And that's why they call these things "minimills."
The most important dimension of a minimill
is that you can make steel of any given quality in a minimill
for 20% lower cost than you can make it in an integrated mill
And so this is the background.
And then I said, 
minimills became technologically viable in the late 1960s.
And because they were melting scrap in these electric furnaces
the quality of the steel that they could make was really bad.
In fact, the only market that would buy what the minimills made
was the rebar market.
Because there are almost no specs for rebar in the first place,
and then after you buried it in cement
you couldn't verify whether it met spec or not.
And so it was a perfect market for crummy products.
As the minimills expanded their capacity to make rebar,
you see on the left-hand side,
the reaction to the integrated mills just got out of the business.
And the reason why is it made no sense
to defend a crummy 7% gross margin business
when, if they just got out of rebar
and focused their energies in angle iron and boron rod,
their gross margins were 12% there.
And so, as the minimills expanded,
the integrated mills got out of rebar.
An interesting thing happened.
As the integrated mills lopped off
the lowest-profit part of their product line
and added up the remaining numbers,
their gross margins improved by getting out of the low end.
The minimills, because they had a 20% cost advantage,
they rolled tons of money getting into that business.
And everybody was kind of happy with the arrangement until 1979.
That was the year when the minimills finally succeeded
in driving the last high-cost integrated player out of rebar.
If you look at what happened to the price of rebar, in 1979,
The price of rebar collapsed by 20%.
It turns out that there is a subtle fact about strategy
that nobody had thought about before,
and that is, a low cost strategy only works
when you have a high-cost competitor in the market.
And as soon as they had fled up,
it was just low-cost minimill fighting against low-cost minimill
in a commodity business, and it drove the prices down 
to the point where none of these poor minimills could make money.
So, what are these poor suckers gonna do?
Well, for a while, they just tried to be more efficient making rebar,
but that was just a recipe for survival.
And then one of them looked up market and said,
Holy cow.
If we could just figure out how to make bigger and better steel,
we'd make money again, because the margins are 12%.
And so they stretch their ability to make angle iron, bar, rod, and rail,
and as they did it, the reaction of the integrated mills,
because they were just happy to get out of that stupid business,
because it was just a dog-eat-dog commodity,
they only made 12% there,
and it never made sense to defend a crummy 12% business,
when, up above them, if they focused their assets
it's in structural steel, they can make 18%.
So, the very same thing happened.
As the integrated mills got out of the low end
and they added up the remaining numbers,
their gross margins improved by getting out,
and the minimills made tons of money by getting in,
because they now had high-cost competitors.
And it was really nice, until 1984.
And that was the year, when the minimills finally succeeded
in driving these guys out.
The price of these products in 1984 collapsed by 20%.
And the reward for their victory, 
to the minimills, is they couldn't make money.
So what are those poor suckers gonna do?
They're gotta move up, and as they attack the low end
of the structural steam business, these guys just got out of it,
because it actually didn't make any sense 
to defend an 18% business
when sheet steel generates gross margins of 25-30%.
It seems like I told you this before.
But anyway, it all happened, and now at the end, here we are.
The minimills in North America account for
65% of all of the steel made in North America.
And all but one of the integrated mills have gone bankrupt.
And then I said, and you notice that I was able to tell the whole story
without using the word, "stupid management" once,
and, because, everybody did the right thing, in the pursuit of profit.
Anyway, so I got that far. And Sheldon--Generl Sheldon,
who was the Chairmen of the joint chiefs,
raised his hand. I called on him, and he said, quote,
"Clay, you're clueless why we're interested in this stuff."
And I confessed that I'm clueless.
and he came to the screen, and he pointed at sheet steel,
and he said, "For what you call the 'high end' in steel,
we call that the Russians,
and they are the most demanding tier in the marketplace.
What you call, 'integrated steel mills,'
we would call that, 'the Department of Defense,'
and everything that we're organized to do,
is to win the war against the Russians."
And then he pointed to the bottom of the market and he said,
"What you call 'rebar,' we call that 'terrorism.'
And what you call the 'minimills,' coming up underneath us,
we call those, 'non-nation Nations,'" like Al Qaeda.
And he said, "That's why we're interested."
And then he sat down,
and, holy cow,  every hand in the room came right up.
And they're asking me all of these questions,
and I did my best to give an answer and, several times,
I said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I just have four more slides
in the presentation. Can I do that?"
And they all said, "Put up the minimills slide again, would you?"
And one of the, one of the first questions was,
Has there been any organization that was the leader
in the integrated steel trajectory, who caught this new wave
and became the leader down there as well?
And I said, well, to this date,
the only ones that have been able to do that
are companies that were able to set up
a completely different business unit to go after that.
But if they don't set up a different business unit,
there's no evidence that you can succeed.
Anyway, so, this went on for about 2 hours
and then we had to leave.
Two months later, they set up a separate business unit.
Not the Army, Navy, Air Force, but it was another one
that they called the Special Forces Command, in Norfolk,
organized to go after terrorism, and non-nation Nations.
Anyway, so that's the story.
I thought about this a lot,
And the puzzle was, those of you who know me
know that Clay Christensen is the most average of average people.
And on almost any dimension, Clay Christensen is totally average.
So, why in the world
 would the Secretary of Defense call Clay Christensen up?
Makes no sense.
And then, when I was in the room, in front of all these people,
these are 40 of the smartest people in the world,
as it relates to offense and defense.
And why would they do this?
And what was even crazier was when they asked a question,
and I tried to give an answer, they took notes.
Well, what I realized is it had nothing to do with
the average-ness of Clay Christensen,
but rather, there was a theory.
And a theory brought to it a statement of causality,
and a theory has voice. A theory has logic. A theory has experience.
What I mean by the theory having experience is,
is this process has happened over and over again,
in industry after industry.
This is the first time that disruption
has happened to the defense department.
And so a theory has experience.
And the theory brought a language,
a common language,
and a common way to frame the problem.
So, people who spends their lives
sitting around conference tables arguing with each other
and talking past each other...
Now they had this common language
and a common way to frame the problem.
And within two months, they were able to set up
a separate organization to go after what was a very different business
than trying to beat the Russians.
And this was really a very useful thing.
And it really changed my life.
So, today, when I am trying to convince some management team
that they should do "this" rather than "that," I don't use data,
because it has all kinds of problems.
Data has an agenda.
A theory doesn't have an agenda.
And sometimes when we are talking about an innovation,
for which there is no data,
I say, "Well, I actually don't have an opinion on this thing.
But the theory has an opinion. Let's see what the theory says.
And maybe there's another theory.
And let's figure out which theory actually has credibility with us."
And, so, that was the first thing I wanted to offer to you,
as innovators, is, I think we at the business schools
have sold people a bell of goods when we're saying
that you ought to be data-driven and fact-based.
Because data is available only about the past.
And if we have a good theory, and we understand the theory,
we can see into the future with clarity,
even before the data arrives at the scene.
And so, we've been studying, just this is one theory about innovation
and there are several others that we have been working on.
Let me just say a couple of other things.
It's very important when we're developing a theory
that people like you guys call up Clay or my colleagues
and say, "We found something that the theory can't explain."
As Thomas Kuhn told us that if we can find an anomaly
that the theory cannot explain,
then we have to improve the theories so it can account for it.
And thank goodness I've got so many students,
and so many friends like you who try to use the theory of disruption
and then call up and say, 
"I can't explain this, or that, or this," you know.
And so over time, I think the theory has become much more robust.
The people who don't help the theory
are people who want to use the word "disruption"
without ever taking the time to read the book,
and, as a consequence, they use the word "disruption"
to justify whatever they want to do in the first place.
But to the degree to which we can understand the theory better,
and use it in the proper way, it becomes stronger and more reliable.
And, as a result of trying to improve the theory,
We realized that we had stretched the theory
beyond where it ought to be.
Because in many ways, the theory is a...
of disruption, is a theory of competitive response.
It's a statement of, if I do this, I can predict
that the leader will flee, rather than fight me.
And if, instead, I try to make better products than the leader,
the theory predicts that they're gonna go after me and kill me.
And that's a useful thing, in the business of innovation,
to be able to predict 
what the competitors will and will not do against me.
But then,
we realize that we actually need a better theory about growth.
Because the theory of disruption is a defensive position.
And, I'll just quickly tell you about this,
and then I wanna go back to mini mills. 
So we decided from the point of view of creating new growth
that there are just 3 types of innovation that we're engaged in.
And 1 type of innovation we're calling "market creating innovations."
And these, these make products 
that historically have been so complicated and expensive
that only the rich have access to them.
Market creating innovations made it affordable and accessible
so that many more people have access.
And that's what I've been trying to describe there 
with the concentric circles.
Which we characterize every market.
The smallest circle represent customers that have the money.
And then the larger circles represent larger populations of people
who have progressively less money.
And market creating innovations 
transform complicated, expensive into simple and cheap.
And so the computer has gone through that transition.
And as we have gone 
from the personal computer to the smartphone,
billions of people have access now where they didn't before.
And so, so many more people buy the product,
that you have to hire more people to make it, 
distribute it, sell it, and service it.
The same thing happened with cars.
Henry with his Model-T made a lot more people affordable.
And then when Toyota came in the 1960's with the,
do you remember the Corona? It made,
allowed the "rebar of humanity," we call college students,
to have a car. 
And nearly all jobs and all growth come from this type of innovation
And then the second type of innovation
we call "sustaining innovations."
Which lifts right up from disruption.
And sustaining innovations are really critical in an economy
because their purpose is to make good products better.
And if you're not making good products better,
your margins start to erode.
And they keep our markets vibrant and competitive.
But sustaining innnovations don't create net growth.
And the reason why is, if I convince you
to buy my new product, you don't buy the old product.
If Toyota convinces us all to buy their hybrid Prius car,
we won't buy a Camry.
And so by their very nature, sustaining innovations,
although they are very critical to our economy,
they don't create net growth and they don't create jobs.
And then the third type of innovation
we came to call "efficiency innovations."
And efficiency innovations, their purpose is to do more with less.
And they also are very important 
because if we're not always getting more efficient
we'll get killed sooner rather than later.
But by their very nature, efficiency innovations eliminate jobs.
By their nature.
And because you're getting more and more efficient
it actually increases the amount of free cash flow 
that you can generate with efficiency innovations.
And so you can take that free cash flow
and invest to make innovations that create
economic growth and jobs and keep going around that.
It's kind of neat system, isn't it?
Almost like a perpetual motion machine.
But you might have noticed over the last 30 years
that our economy isn't doing this very well anymore.
So we have had 9 recessions since World War 2.
In the first 6 of the 9 recessions, from the time when we hit bottom
to the point when we needed to hire people 
in order to keep up with the growth
was about 6 months, before you... in the rebound.
But we had a recession in 1991-92 
where it took our economy 15 months,
not 6 months, to get out of the recession.
And then we had a recession in '08, no I'm sorry, '01-'02.
and it took our economy 39 months
to get out of the bottom of that recession.
And then it took us nearly 70 months
to get out of the recession of '07-'08.
There's just something fundamental... 
something fundamentally wrong with our economy.
And this is my sense for what's happening.
And that is that I call it: a new church of finance.
That's a beautiful cathedral in Reykjavik.
It's worth going there just to see it.
But I call this a church because the people 
who worship in this church
believe deeply in the tenets of finance.
And there are high priests, people like me, unfortunately.
And they started to teach us, 30 years ago or so,
that because cost, capital is so costly and expensive,
we need to be much more efficient in how we use capital.
And just be sure that we only put capital
in applications in the market where they're critical.
And in order to do, to measure how effectively we're using capital,
instead of whole numbers, they started to teach us to use fractions.
So when I was in the MBA program at Harvard in the '70s,
we typically measured how a company was doing in whole numbers.
Like tons of cash, stuff like that.
But the analysts and the investors wanted to be able to compare
a company in this indsutry with a company in that industry.
By having a ratio,
we can compare companies across industry boundaries.
And a ratio has a numerator and a denominator.
And that's kind of a neat thing.
So the church has told us 
that we should measure success by these ratios.
And let's just take number 1 return on net assets. 
If I wanna get RONA up, sure, I can be more innovative.
Create more profit and put that in the numerator of the ratio.
But what the heck, if innovation is just hard,
I just have to outsource everything
and get assets off the denominator of the ratio.
Either way RONA goes up and, as managers, isn't that slick?
Or internal rate of return, the third one up there, is a ratio.
Profit in the numerator, and the denominator is a measure
of how quickly you get your money out after you put it in.
And so sure I could be innovative. Put it in the numerator.
But what the heck. If that's hard, then I just need to use my capital 
in innovations that pay off in the very short term.
And internal rate of return improves.
And so this is what's happened to us.
As we have started to use investments in innovation
with these metrics, we got this free cash flow.
And then we have an analyst to help us figure out
where we should put this cash.
And he looks at this thing and he says, you know, I get it.
If we want to grow, we need to focus our investments
in market-creating innovations 
that enable a larger population of people to have access
to something that historically was limited to the few.
The problem with these, though, is it takes 5-10 years to pay off.
And we have to put assets on the balance sheet
and we're trying to get assets off the balance sheet.
On the other hand, if we take our free cash flow
and invest it in efficiency innovations, it has none of these problems.
It pays off in 3 months to 2 years.
The market exists. There's no risk, and it creates even more free cash flow.
So if you wouldn't mind, just this once,
could I use my capital to do another round of efficiency innovations?
And they do it.
And then the problem is they got more free cash flow.
What am I gonna do with this stuff?
Well darn it.
If I invest in market-creating innovations,
these metrics are gonna take us in the wrong place.
But just one more time, can I invest in efficiency innovations?
And then it got more free cash flow. 
What am I gonna do?
And I don't know if you've seen this happen right before your eyes,
but this is what's happening.
And, if we had a couple of days,
we could talk about how to solve this problem.
But it's a problem.
And all of the markets that we work with have that problem.
Anyway.
If you wouldn't mind,
I just would like to change gears a little bit.
And I gave a talk to our graduating students,
called "How will you measure your life?"
and that was published in HBR.
And then a number of people convinced me
that we ought to write a book on that topic.
And I thought I would just close
by trying to summarize the issue in this book.
And I think it is salient to innovators
because we are just people who are driven to achieve. 
Which includes at least 100 percent of us.
When we have an extra ounce of energy or time,
we have, our instinct is to use our time or energy
in whatever activity yields us 
the most immediate and tangible evidence of achievement.
And what I see at our school is,
when we graduate from the Harvard Business School,
nobody has a strategy to go out and get divorced
and raise children who hate their guts.
But as I watch what happens to our graduates,
more and more get divorced
and raise children who are alienated to them.
And they implement the strategy that they did not intend to pursue.
And the reason why it's the very same thing as the minimills
and the integrated steel mills.
The integrated mills implemented a strategy which is to get killed,
even though they did not intend to get killed.
But they spent their time and energy in innovations
that yielded the most immediate and tangible evidence of achivement,
which was to go up-market.
And this happens to all of us.
If we invest our time and energy on our careers,
it just surrounds us with evidence of achivement.
We close a deal.
We ship a product.
We get the production line up.
We get paid.
We get promoted.
Our share price goes up.
And in our careers, 
we're surrounded with evidence of achivement in every turn.
On the other hand, 
time and energy that we spend trying to raise good children
don't pay off very quickly.
In fact, on a day-to-day basis, our children misbehave.
And it isn't until 20 years down the road
that you can put your hands on your hips and say,
"Boy we raised a great son or daughter."
But on a day-to-day basis, there's no evidence of achievement.
And in a similar way,
investments in our relationships with our spouses 
don't pay off very quickly. Nor do they degrade very quickly.
But investing in raising a great family
pays off only in the longer term.
And we all know that the deepest sources, source of our happiness
is the happiness at home.
And yet we invest not to achieve what we need to.
And I just wanted to point this out
that the very same mechanism that caused disruption
is at work 24/7 in all of our homes.
And I'll just tell you 1 illustration of how that hit me.
And then, John, I'll just ask you to come forward.
So, after I got my MBA, I got a job with the Boston Consulting Group,
which means I'm in his camp.
A consultant and an MBA.
And about a month after I started working there,
the project manager of our team came to me and said,
Clay we've got a big presentation with a client,
as you know, on Monday, and we need to have a team meeting.
And I scheduled it for Sunday at 2pm.
And this is the stuff you gotta do, because it's a big meeting.
And I said to Mike, 
Ooh. Mike. I got a problem. I never told you about this yet,
but my wife and I are religious people,
and we made a decision that I wouldn't work on Sunday
because it's a holy day, and I want to spend that time,
Christine and I want to spend our time with our kids
and trying to understand God better.
And so I can't work on Sunday. I'm sorry, Mike.
And Mike just went bonkers.
And he said "Everybody works on Sunday."
And I said "That's just fine, you know, 
but I made a commitment and I can't, I'm sorry."
And he said, "Look. I don't understand anything about your church,
but in my church, you just do stuff when you need to do it, you know. 
And so if I do something that they don't like, I just do it,
 and then I find a priest and confess, 
and everything's just fine, you know?
And don't you have 
some kind of a mechanism like that in your church?
And I said, darn it, I wish there was sometimes.
But anyway, I said, I just can't.
So Mike just blustered away
and then he came back about an hour later.
And he said "Clay, look, I talked to the team.
They understand. 
So I think everybody can do it on Saturday at 2pm."
And I said "Oh man, Mike.
I made a commitment to Christine that I wouldn't work on Saturdays.
You know, because I want to raise good kids."
And I said, "If I want to raise good kids,
and I spend my time on Saturday working for BCG
I won't implement a strategy that's really important to me.
So, sorry Mike, but I can't do it on Saturday, either."
And he really went bonkers and blustered away 
and came back an hour later, and he said,
"Look. I talked to everybody. We just have one question.
Do you work on Fridays, perchance?"
Anyway, so I thought a lot about that decision,
because, in one way, it was just one in several thousand weekends.
But if I had been locked into the logic of, you know,
This is my commitment, and as a general rule, 
I should follow that commitment. 
But in this particular extenuating circumstance, 
just this once, it's okay if I don't do it.
It turns out
that my life has been filled with extenuating circumstances,
and if I had done it once, it would have been so much easier
to break again and again.
And I concluded that it's actually easier 
to keep with our commitments 100 percent of the time 
than it is 98 percent of the time.
And so I just thought I'd offer this to you
because each one of you has a strategy for your life.
And just be sure that you understand what your commitment is
to yourself and to your family.
And, although we all desperately want to achieve as innovators,
there's a much more important piece of our life
that we can't get in any other way.
So, anyway, thanks for listening to that.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Oh yeah, sure. My name is Edric Leggett.
I'm a volunteer here at Collision Conference.
So tell me about your background,
and what made you want to volunteer?
Okay, so I come from a creative background,
dancing for 14 years, filmmaking,
and I recently got into the tech community.
I'm a co-founder at a company based in Pasedena, California,
and our company got submitted into the Alpha program,
accepted into the Alpha program at Web Summit 2015,
so we decided to come to Collision 
to see how CI goes about creating these conferences, 
and so far, I'm really, really, really impressed,
and it's quite an amazing experience.
I agree, it's been pretty amazing for myself as well.
So what are you doing exactly as a volunteer?
As a volunteer, I'm facilitating everybody moving around,
finding out where all the startups are,
where all the investors are,
and just in general, just helping people get to where they need to be.
So do you think you'll probably join next year?
Perhaps. I might come back as a volunteer next year,
but hopefully I'll be able to come back as a presenter.
So how does this compare
with other events that you've worked at,
or visited as a participant?
What I like about this is, truly to the namesake "collision,"
it seems like people literally collide, and just,
and make new partnerships, new networking,
new enterprises, so I really like it.
It's different; I've never been anywhere like this,
quite honestly, and I'm actually glad,
because this set the bar for me really high.
So what's been the most interesting thing for you here?
The most interesting thing for me here?
That's a good question.
I'd have to say, I didn't get to look at it too much,
but the pitch stage is very interesting,
the fact that people can just walk on by and listen in on the pitch.
It gives a very dynamic sense to it.
So who are the speakers who normally come to events like this, 
do you know?
I listen to as many as I can.
I wasn't able to listen to a lot of them this time,
but any time I'm by that area,
I give a listen,
because the speakers are amazing.
Awesome. Well Edric, thanks a lot for your help and your words.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.

- Hi, can you introduce yourself?
- Yeah, hi.
I'm- my name is Gurpawan Mand
I'm founder CEO of Cool Junk.
And, I'm from New Delhi, India.
- Oh, great. So tell me about Cool Junk, what do you do and,
tell me about New Delhi.
- Okay.
So basically, Cool Junk is a project-based learning company
And we have our first flagship product is
is called, Cool Junk Kit One.
which is- it's a learning product
using which parents can set up an electronics lab at home
and teach kids hands-on physics and science
using a huge library of hands-on projects and experiments.
So it's like - you think of it like Legos for physics and science.
And we have- so we have built these learning videos
You know, which kids can access online
and we ship the kit to the kids at home
and they do hands-on learning.
- Great.
So, how did you develop this?
- Yeah. So, we worked with around 15,000 students in India,
I taught hands-on physics to almost 3,000 kids in India
And that's how we developed the product over 40 years
of research and testing.
- 40 years?
- Yes, yes.
- Wow. So, tell me about your background a little bit more.
- Yeah. So basically, I'm a mechanical engineering
graduate from another premier engineering institutes
in India, which is IIT, and - right from college,
I actually started the company.
Yeah.
- Cool.
- Yeah.
- So tell me about your team.
This team is like- we are a three member team.
We are supported by, you know,  angel investors and advisors,
and now I'm here in U.S to raise capital for my start-up,
and want to start a product distribution in the U.S.
- Okay, yeah.
So do you have any competitors?
- Ah, yeah, good question.
So, right now, there are no direct competitors.
There are companies that are actually trying to- they're an
electronic kit companies, which is an indirect competition,
like for example, littleBits is one company,
then they buy-... there's a kit by Thames and Kosmos
and Snap Circuits
But they are more like toys and, you know, snap.
Here at Cool Junk, you work with real tools, real components
and kids gain real technical skills.
So, and we have a lot of content to
support around the kids.
- Do you see yourself expanding into other markets
and other countries?
- Yes,  so our plan is to, over the next three years,
we want to set up product distribution
in Middle East, in Asia
in, you know, Singapore, is a great market for us,
New Zealand, Australia, U.S., Canada.
You know, India we already selling.
So,  in India we are selling, you know,  almost 120 CDs online,
through Amazon, Flipkart, and Snapdeal, e-commerce players.
And we have sold more than
$200,000 dollars worth of kits,
alone in India.
- Do you have any competitors?
- In India?
No.
Not right now.
- Oh, wow.
How about internationally?
- Internationally, I told you about the competitors right?
Like, littleBits is one of our competitors, but
littleBits is focused more on, you know,
junior kids, snapping circuits.
But my larger vision is
to build world's largest digital library.
of hands-on experiments and projects
for stem education.
Think like, code-zero, for hands-on learning.
- So where do you see this industry going in the future?
- Ah, that's a good question.
So, basically, there's a lot of things happening
in ed-tech education.
I think the industry
the revolution- lize-
the industry of wireless service
in the form of personalized learning.
So, like, you know, if I can take the hands-on experience,
and, you know, make it available at home,
in the hands of kids,
you know, so they can start learning at home
and they don't need to go to schools.
So, I think, there's a lot of hardware in the world,
but there is not enough content.
For example, if you want to learn genetics,
you want to learn biotechnology,
computer science hands-on,
there is no structured enough content
on a website where you can go to.
So, that's what we want to build.
Like, a platform wherein you have-
You have all the hands-on learning
libraries and course content
or curriculums, which you can access
and learn anything hands-on.
- Great.
- That's the idea.
- What else would you like to add?
- Okay, so right now we have...
What would I like to add?
So, I'm actually looking...
forward to set up the product distribution,
channel partners,
in U.S., in Asia,
so if you like our product
go check out our website,
Cooljunk.in
And, you know,
I'll be happy to partner with you.
And if you are looking for investor,
because we are looking to raise series A capital,
we'll be happy to connect.
And my email ID is Gurpawan, G-U-R-P-A-W-A-N,
@cooljunk.in
- All right. Thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
- Thank you.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Hey, I'm Sam Chen, I'm from CommunityPop, 
and I'm actually from Canada, so...
a lot of people don't know where that is! So that's new.
Where is Canada, then?
Well, it's up north, so...
I'm just kidding, I know where it is.
Okay good! Thank god.
Where in Canada?
I'm actually from Ottowa.
Okay, okay. Cool. Tell me a little bit about CommunityPop.
CommunityPop is a community improving platform. 
What we do is, we help communities grow. 
We're basically, it's a directory. You guys know Wikipedia?
Yep.
We're very into Wikipedia communities.
You guys have your sponsors, your media,
your community, your markets,
and wants to make it grow,
for example the LG...
the gay and lesbian association
or Make-a-Wish Foundation
or even Mothers against Drunk Drivers.
We have a lot of communities on our network right now
finding this as a universal way that is so simple. It's free,
and it makes everything, I guess, easy for life,
and as well as that, we have a funding platform.
So, unlike Kickstarter, we're not funding for you.
We're not funding for your family or your business.
We're funding for everybody in the community
working together to help the community grow.
So in the end of the day,
we become a community growing platform.
So tell me, why did you start the company,
and what's your team like?
So, funny story is, I think it's 4 years--
no, it was a 4-year project,
and after 3 years, we realized
that what we were making wasn't the right approach,
so we went to the pivot point, restarted,
and we found a way that was simple, easy interface
that made people love sharing in communities.
And as we grew from there,
we started working with more media,
and we finally expanded to more funding,
and we finally realized that this is how communities grow.
Very cool. What's your business model?
Currently, right now, it's not about the funding,
it's about making people go to this site.
Making people use it, making people love and love it.
The second part is the funding, just like Kickstarter,
we get a little bit of the cut that you guys raise,
but at the end of the day,
you guys are raising for your community,
so you guys are going to be at the top from there.
What kind of people do you target?
Surprisingly, anyone that has a lot of niche interest groups.
So we go from ladies who are 60-year-old-plus,
who love playing with dolls,
to youth who love playing with their toys,
to even activist groups, to non-profits, charities, BIAs,
over a hundred different organizations
love to use our platform, but only as a starting point.
So usually, they're people
who don't have huge platforms already, right?
They're kind of smaller platforms?
So anyone that hates WordPress will love us.
All right, sounds pretty cool.
Tell me a little history behind;
how old are you guys, the company?
CommunityPop is actually 8 months old.
And that started from pivot points,
from a lot of marketing, a lot of meeting people
and learning what people actually want.
I guess the key thing we want is
failure is the reason why we actually succeed.
What do you see the future of this going?
The way we see is people forget how to be connecting,
how to actually be a community.
How to actually interact, how to be with each other.
We're trying to reconnect everyone again
by using the rules of the online world
to actually integrate into what we call CommunityPop.
So at the end of the day,
we hope everyone finds ways to connect with each other,
not through market alone, but to market and sustain.
Sounds great. Anything else you'd like to add?
I don't know, more or less,
I'm enjoying my time at the conference.
I'm loving it. I have two amazing people
who are interviewing me right now,
actually there can be one, and one guy on camera.
But yeah, like I'm loving my time,
and I hope other people will come to the conference
any time soon.
All right thank you so much.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
No problem.

Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Sure. 
My name is Steve Drew 
and I'm Vice President of Product and Marketing at CrowdStreet.
All right and tell me about CrowdStreet.
So CrowdStreet is a commercial real estate investment portal
where we connect commercial real estate developers
and sponsors with accredited investors.
So an accredited investor is 
someone who has a net worth of about a million dollars or more.
Or an annual salary of about 200,000 a year,
as an individual or 300 as a household.
How do you go about finding these investors?
That's a great question.
So we use all digital marketing
to acquire investor members to join our platform.
We also attend several conventions around the country.
We speak on different panels.
But primarily outreach to individual investors 
who may have high net worth potential.
So they've expressed interest in commercial real estate
in the past 
or they may be involved in different investment groups online
and so forth.
We do direct mail.
We have ads that we place.
We do press releases.
A lot of feedback comes from conferences like Collision.
Great. All right. So how did you get involved in the company?
So I've been doing product and marketing..
product development and marketing for about 20 years.
So I've been with several large companies like Sage.
I was Director of Product Management there,
working with the Peachtree product.
I brought Peachtree Quantum to market 
and another up-market construction product.
I also worked at Radiant Systems which is a point of sale product
in Atlanta.
So I joined CrowdStreet about a year ago.
I had been in the startup community.
I had been with a few startups 
and saw great opportunity to join the company.
It was really in the midst of disrupting a very established market,
the real estate market.
Based on the passage of the JOBS Act in 2012,
which made it possible
to publicly market commercial real estate opportunites publicly.
And that was never before possible,
so I thought it was a great opportunity 
to get involved in disrupting a major market.
Great. So is there anyone else out there doing something similar
and if so how are you comparing?
Yeah. So there are definitely other competitors.
They are all a little bit different than we are.
We've focused our business model on 
focusing on the best commercial real estate developers
in the country.
So we have very high posting criteria 
to even have an opportunity.
We only focus on accredited investors, as I mentioned.
Not the unaccredited.
We could in the future but today we're just accredited.
We also support direct investment
as opposed to indirect investment,
between the sponsor and the investor.
And by that I mean that the investors are investing in 
the specific deal and LLC of the sponsor.
They're not going through our LLC 
as an intermediary. 
We also don't charge any fees to our investors.
All of the investors' money is passed directly to the sponsor,
and begins to earn a return immediately. 
So many of our competitors do charge a fee to the investors.
We're also not a broker dealer,
which means that we don't provide investor guidance 
to our investor members.
We simply inform them about the opportunities.
Again our opportunities are meeting a very high bar.
We don't present them as good or bad deals. Just deals.
So those are the primary differences.
We're also a technology stack.
So as opposed to just being a marketplace
where you can post your investment opportunities,
or a sponsor could,
we're also a technology stack
that could be integrated into a sponsor's own website,
for their own branded solution.
So if they'd like to maintain that direct relationship
with their own investors through a branded portal,
they have the opportunity to do that 
with the same technology that we use to run our marketplace.
Great. You mentioned that you don't get a cut of...
the previous, you mentioned before.
But what's your revenue model and how do you get money?
So we don't charge any fees to the investors themselves,
we charge the sponsor;
the real estate operator or developer;
a posting fee to be on our site
and then an ongoing fee for ongoing investor relations.
So our portal both manages the investment process
as well as the ongoing investor relations document sharing
and so forth that happens after the closing the deal.
So an investor would come to their investor room,
they'd see all the documents they signed 
as part of the closing process.
They'd also receive their K-1 tax documentations,
all their distribution information centralized in their investor room,
and really everything centralized together.
They'd see their actual distributions
relative to their projected distributions,
charted in a nice, easy-to-read manner.
So the entire system's really provided together.
Great. What's your traction like?
So we've had 8 deals so far.
We had our first deal listed in April 2014.
It was an assisted living facility in Bloomington, Indiana.
Very successful.
We've currently raised over 7 million dollars on our platform.
We've been part of 40 million dollars of capital raising so far.
And the platform is really at a massive growth phase right now.
We turn down about 80 percent of the deals
that just don't meet our posting criteria.
And we're seeing great growth in our investor member acquisition.
Great. I appreciate the time and congratulations and good luck.
All right. Thank you.
Thank you.

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
My name is Mindy Manes.
I'm the Chief Operating Officer for Edison Awards. 
Edison Awards is an organization that honors and recognizes 
and celebrates innovators and their innovations.
Great. So how long have you guys been around?
Edison Awards has been around for 28 years. 
And when did you join?
I've been here for...
I've worked part-time for them for about 7 or 8 years,
and full-time for 1 year.
Okay. And tell me about the other employees who work,
who is the founder and where is he, and that stuff.
The founder of the Edison Awards is Cal Hodock.
He'll be at our event tonight and he'll be honored at that event.
He was originally with the American Marketing Association.
American Marketing Association owned the rights 
to the Edison Awards
and after a while they quit doing the Edison Awards 
and Frank Bonafilia purchased the rights 
and he's now the Executive Director of Edison Awards.
So what is it like to be a nominee, a finalist for the Edison Awards?
What does that mean for companies?
Companies really get so much out of being, 
even when they just nominate their innovation for an award,
what they get out of that,
is our steering committee reviews their product
and what those companies tell us is 
it's like getting a very high-powered focus group.
And after the fact, 
so even if they don't become a finalist,
we'll give them an evaluation if they want it, 
of exactly what the steering committee said,
about their marketing, about their product, 
about how well the impact of their product was communicated, 
and companies find that so valuable to have that high of a level,
and that much focus on their product or service,
that even if they don't become a finalist,
it's just a huge benefit for them. 
So how large is this event?
How many companies apply and how many were accepted
and, you know, where do you see the growth going?
This year we had probably 340 that applied, 
I think it was somewhere around that.
So we have quite a few that apply,
and out of those it will be a hundred something
that end up becoming finalists.
And those finalists then go on to be voted on 
by over 3,000 business and marketing executives,
 scientists, engineers, academics.
Basically a big, huge group of professionals
who are going to evaluate whether or not that product or service
should get a bronze, a silver, or a gold award.
Great. So who are some of the previous winners?
Oh my goodness. 
We have so many winners 
that are really represented by Fortune 500 companies
like Dow, and GM and GE and Procter & Gamble and 3M.
You're going to see lots of winners in that category.
But you're also going to see small startups
where maybe it was just 1 or 2 people 
who made some really amazing innovation.
There was a kind of cool innovation that somebody did 
called Liftin Buddy or Lift Buddy, 
which was like basically a dolly,
and it would lift up the boxes as you worked with it.
So instead of having to bend over constantly and get them,
it would just lift it up.
And they ended up selling their company for millions of dollars
after their Edison Awards experience. 
What is it like, 
what does it mean to name this event after Thomas Edison?
Thomas Edison is known worldwide for being, probably, 
possibly one of, if not the most innovative person.
He has thousands of patents in his name.
He made Menlo Park,
where it was really the first kind of working research lab,
where they were expected to turn out new ideas
and new products and just churn them out.
Because that was their mindset, 
was innovating and being entrepreneurs. 
And everybody around the world knows who Thomas Edison is.
So, and, he was one of the most prolific inventors. 
So, when people say the Edison Awards, 
people immediately have a sense of what that means. 
Like if I said "I'm gonna give you the Mindy Manes award."
No one would have any... what would that mean?
But if you say a Thomas Edison award,
people immediately understand the impact and power of that.
What led you to want to work for the Edison Awards?
You know,
one of the things would be like working with people like you.
You've created this amazing product.
You just have that drive, that ambition, that creativity.
You know you could go in a big room of people,
and you might find one person that has this great idea,
and then they have the grit, the determination,
and the drive to actually make it happen. 
And here at the Edison Awards,
the thing that people, like other inventors and innovators love,
is they are surrounded by people like that. 
So, it's just,
this event is simply infused 
with that level of entrepreneurial and innovative energy.
It's just, people resonate with that.
Especially other inventors.
They resonate with that.
Because it's not what they typically are gonna see 
in just some general group.
As the nominees go, are they mostly domestic?
In the United States, or are they international companies?
We have, we definitely have lots of international nominations,
and that number is increasing 
as we're becoming more well known internationally.
Right now, definitely still more from America.
But like I said, our international presence is definitely moving up.  
What did you do before the Edison Awards?
I was an Innovation Strategist at a college. 
And that helped prepare you for this role?
Yes. And honestly my husband is an entrepreneur.
He started his own business. 
So I'm really comfortable with that level of jumping into the unknown
and just making it happen.
And I love working with people who have that kind of courage,
that are doing that. 
Well thanks a lot. I appreciate your time. 
You're very welcome. Thank you.
Thank you. 
Thanks.

All right. Could you introduce yourself?
Yeah my name is Eric Ortiz.
I'm the founder of Evrybit. And CEO.
All right. Tell me about Evrybit.
It's a mobile storytelling tool.
Evrybit is a mobile storytelling tool.
It enables anyone to tell a story on a smartphone,
using any type of media.
Audio, video, photo, text, drawing, and more.
All right. What kind of storytelling do you mean?
Any type of story.
So it could be for professional reporters, journalists, 
or it could be for everyday citizens
telling a story about a baby's birth or wedding, birthday party.
Any story. 
Tell me how it works. Like from start to finish.
So you can create a story 
and then you can string together bits of media 
into that story into a narrative stream.
You can share the story on social media, 
you can embed it on a website.
It organizes all the media in one stream 
so that you can easily tell the story 
and consume the story.
So we've been here at Collision conference in...
where are we?
Las Vegas.
Las Vegas.
And so we've been telling the story of
each day of the Collision conference.
So you go to our website,
it's getevrybit.com. It's E-V-R-Y-B-I-T.
You can see the story.
We have lots of stories we've told.
You know we've been in other festivals,
it's a great tool when you're on-the-go,
using your phone or mobile device, 
you can capture all the media in one place on-the-go,
it makes it very simple to tell a story.
How do you compare to any competitors out there?
So there are companies that are doing things in a similar space.
We... you know ScribbleLive is a competitor,
but we offer a much more accessible tool.
So we have a freemium business model.
So there's a free app in the Apple App Store now.
If you have an iphone go and download it.
We're gonna have Android later this year.
And it's gonna be available for anyone. 
If you wanna upgrade, get more tools, you'll be able to do that.
We're gonna have much more tools. We're gonna be collaborative.
And you know, we believe it's mobile first.
Mobile is the future of storytelling and content creation.
We're building a tool that's optimized for that.
Other tools, you know all the stories can be archived, 
so you can relive them, after an event, 
or you can follow them in real time.
It makes it very simple to tell a story.
We have a very powerful tool, that's easy to use for anyone.
Tell me about your team.
We have 6 people on the team right now.
We have a founder, myself, a co-founder, CTO, and 3 developers.
Our developers are in Chile. We have 2 iOs and 1 web developer. 
We're looking to add to our development team and scale.
What's your business model?
Fremium business model, so 4 revenue streams.
We have subscription, individual subscriptions,
people can... or, enterprise licensing.
We're gonna have native advertising 
and we're gonna have a marketplace 
where you can buy and sell media.
What's one more thing you'd like to add?
This is the future of storytelling.
So we believe we can get in the hands 
of all smartphone users worldwide.
That's our goal. Be the new way to tell stories.
Right now the app ecosystem is very fragmented.
You have to use a lot of apps. It's very inefficient.
We want to make the process simple, easy, and efficient.
And empower anyone to be a storyteller. 
We believe stories can connect the world. That's what we wanna do.
All right. Eric, thanks very much. I appreciate it.
Thank you.

All right, hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yep, my name is Cormac McCarthy.
My company is Filepicker.io.
We help our clients get access to their end-users' files,
so we have an online service, product.
Best way of explaining it is by example.
So, one of our main clients is American Greetings,
which is a U.S. company
that prints personalized content for their customers.
So that could be calendars, photo books, greeting cards.
So our service plugs into their websites,
on their eCommerce sites.
Their customers then use our service
to connect to their Facebook accounts,
their Instagram accounts, their Dropbox accounts,
access their files, their photographs,
and then submit them to American Greetings, our customer.
We facilitate all that connectivity.
So, we have 27 of them now.
So instead of their development team,
their software development team
maintaining all those connections,
we do that for them, so it saves them a lot of time.
Great. Where are you based, and how big is your team?
We've headquartered in San Francisco.
We have a team here in Vegas.
We have a team in Krakau in Poland;
our tech team is based over there.
Probably about 40 people now.
So still kind of in startup mode,
but growing, and growing well.
Great. So, why Poland for the tech team?
One of the managers,
one of the main guys on the team
had a business connection there before,
so we utilized that and we've grown a team,
lots of really good, strong technical people.
We've found it really easy to recruit good people
and grow a good team, so...
And is having an international company,
as you are now, is it easy communication?
You all speak in English?
Yeah, we do most of our business in English,
internally and with our customer base.
Obviously, in the Polish office,
they'll speak to each other in Polish.
But yeah, when we deal with them
between the different teams spread around the world,
we do business in English.
Great, all right.
What's your traction like, and how are you expanding?
It's good. This particular product, company,
we took over as a team last year.
We've grown it 4-5 times in terms of revenue
in about a year, which is great.
And customer base as well has grown pretty well.
And we will continue to grow.
We're still on track to continue growing at that rate.
We're going to be doing more partnerships,
in terms of marketing,
in terms of partnerships on a technical standpoint as well,
and as well as the customers
that we are working with,
they're growing as well,
so we're actually growing with our customers
as they increase their usage and their business as well.
How do you find customers?
We primarily look at our existing customer base,
and then we look for trends and segmentation, and
from there we go out looking for similar types of businesses,
so here today, at the event, I primarily look for companies
that are similar to the ones I know
we've already worked with,
and some of them, our customers, are here today,
which is great. So I've bumped into a few customers
that are already using us and happy with the service.
What else would you like to add?
Not sure. I mean, ask another question.
What's your revenue model?
We're a SaaS model,
so we're software-as-a-service,
so our customers pay us a monthly fee.
The monthly fee they pay us
is based on the number of files
that we ingest or process for them.
So the more files they use, or push through our service,
the more we charge them.
But then the more they do,
the pricing per file will reduce,
so economy of scale, so that's our pricing model.
All right, well Cormac, it was great talking to you.
Thank you and good luck.

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Sure. My name is Joel Sommer.
I'm with the company called Hocoma.
And I'm also a physical therapist.
Great. So what do you do at Holcoma?
Hocoma. Yeah, sorry.
At Holcoma I am a business development manager.
And we're promoting a product that monitors low back pain
and trains you in therapeutic exercise.
Can you expand on that?
How do you do that exactly?
Sure. So I'm reaching out to clinics, hospitals, 
and skilled nursing facilities 
to see if they would be good candidates to try our device
and use with their patients 
and ultimately help patients get better faster,
in a more fun, motivating, entertaining way.
Through games and through body sensors.
I'm wearing this monitor here and one on my lower back
and that kind of takes me through a whole bunch of back exercises.
Explain how the monitors work with the app 
and how that monitors or improves...
Sure. Yeah.
So there are 3 sensors within the sensors that are on me
and it tells the app or the ipad where my body is in space
and in relation to each other.
So it can give me complete range of motion of my lumbar spine
and my thoracic spine
and also allow me to get an idea of how my quality of movement is.
My smoothness of movement,
my ability to isolate my lumbar from my pelvic range of motion.
And also my stability.
What's my strength like.
Is there anything else in the market like this?
And if there is, how would you compare?
Yeah. There's nothing quite like this.
There's a lot of wearables for sure.
But they only track your behavior.
This actually trains your behavior. 
Meaning: you're wearing it and it's tracking it,
but then it's telling you if you're doing your exercises correctly
or incorrectly.
So tell me about the app.
Sure.
How does it work?
The app is free.
You can download it on the itunes store on a ipad or iphone.
Version 3 or higher for the ipad 
and version 5 or higher for the iphone.
And it takes you to this kind of fun, interactive world,
where you're doing exercises but it just feels like games.
Because you're training your back and your core,
to support yourself better and have better posture.
Is it similar to a Nintendo Wii?
It's similar in the fact that there's something monitored,
there's a motion sensor.
It's different in the fact 
it's a Grade 1-A medically FDA approved device.
And the accuracy is so much higher.
So you might have one remote with the Wii,
or maybe two remotes, I'm not even sure for certain games,
but this actually allows you
 to get very precise range of motion measurements
of the lumbar spine.
Tell me about what countries are you in 
and are you planning to expand?
Yeah. Well definitely planning to expand.
We are in the U.S. obviously.
It's a Swiss company, so we're based in Switzerland.
We are in Germany, Austria, Singapore, 
and we are spreading. 
I think we just got into England as well.
With the Valedo.
So we definitely focus on spreading throughout the world.
Most of your clients.. 
is it like a B2B or B2C business?
So specifically for this device it can be B2B
but it's also B2C.
So consumers are definitely encouraged to try this device out.
We do recommend that you do it through a therapist.
A lot of therapists can use this device in the clinic,
and either rent out or sell the Valedo directly to their patients,
to the consumers.
How are you marketing your product?
Sure.
We are in several ads in physical therapy magazines
and publications.
We're also contacting major spine rehab
and maybe even neurological hospitals
that will focus on trunk control and support.
So it's through a marketing campaign of publications,
but also reaching out, you know, contacting the right people.
Tell me more about your team.
How large is it, which offices do you have?
Do you know anything about the company culture?
Yeah. So in America, I'm the New York rep. 
So I'm in this area.
But the headquarters is in Boston, for the U.S.
And. Did you say how many people?
Yeah.
Roughly, I think there's about 10, 10-12 people.
So that includes service, sales, and management.
In Switzerland I believe it's a good deal more.
It's about 150 people.
And then we have sales partners across the world as well,
that take our product and sell it. 
It's a pretty large company then.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a very innovative company as well. 
Tell me about your background,
you know your educational and previous work experiences,
and how that got you prepared for this?
Yeah. So I am a practicing physical therapist.
I worked for solely physical therapy
for a little more than two and a half years.
I had done a good amount of research
in my education for Doctor of Physical Therapy
and then I found this company that did similar things
that I did in research and just doing it as a business.
So I was attracted to this company immediately.
And I'm glad I've joined the team.
What do you think the future's like for this industry?
I think it's limitless. Truly.
I think people want to know more about their bodies
and what they can do to improve,
but also physicians, physical therapists, 
any kind of healthcare worker 
wants to know more about what their patients are doing.
Because these are all variables at this point.
We can tell a patient to work out 3 times a week
for 20 minutes.
We have no idea if they're doing it.
For real.
They could be lying, they could be just not knowing if they're doing it,
or forgetting,
but this is something that monitors them real-time
and points to specific reasons why they could
or could not be getting better.
Sounds amazing and good luck.
Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you.

So my name is Hari Nair.
I am the Chairman of the Edison Awards Steering Committee.
I'm here today, we're at the New York Academy of Science 
hosting the Edison Awards
and today we've had some wonderful speakers talk about innovation 
and we've also had some great companies presenting their innovation 
in our Innovators Showcase. 
So we had a fantastic panel we just completed,
on collective disruption 
which was really talking about how the forces of disruption
are really at the core of what is driving a lot of the innovation in the world.
And, you know, what was really interesting was 
you know, we all see disruption in different
ways, and we respond to it in different ways
and at its center though, disruption is happening
because there's innovation that's solving
a problem for the consumer in a simpler way,
in an easier way than they had before. 
And that consumer could be a individual consumer
or could be a business. 
So the discussion was really centered around the fact 
that you have to start with the consumer problem first
and really apply a disruptive solution to solve that problem.
And if you do that your innovation will be likely successful. 
So we're also very excited this year
to honor Bob Lutz and Clayton Christensen 
who are both innovators in their own right, 
and to be able to present them with the Edison Achievement Award 
is really an honor for us as a Steering Committee.
Also a reflection of the great work that they've done in their respective fields. 
In Bob's talk this morning he talked about, you know,
how it's really important not to just force innovation to the consumer. 
You have to actually think about, you know, from the consumer lens,
what it is you're doing to them in terms of simplifying their lives 
and if your innovation is actually creating consumer value 
then you're likely gonna be more successful. 
I believe Clayton Christensen's work is, 
you know, world renowned, 
in terms of his impact on disruptive innovation and new business models. 
And I think what Christensen, he's created a whole new set of managers, 
like myself, who used his theories actually to put it into practice
when we're facing the disruptive threats.
By writing his books and kind of democratizing how disruption is viewed 
and the kind of, how you can respond to these types of disruptive innovations. 
He's actually helped the world actually, you know, respond to disruptive innovation. 
Also create new disruptive innovation.
And I think that's the, that's really a test of a great leader, great thinker, 
as well as someone who really wants the world to use his theories and frameworks 
in a much more simpler way.

All right, hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yes. I'm James Ross.
I'm the CEO and co-founder of Hedge Chatter.
All right. Tell me about that company, HedgeChatter.
So Hedge Chatter, we correlate social media financial chatter
to actual stock price movement.
So what we're able to do is
instead of using fundamental indicators
or technical indicators
that everybody in the markets have
we're actually, created a third indicator
which is social.
So by listening to millions of chat messages every single day
we can tell which stocks people are actually about to get in
before they get in them.
Okay, and do you have any competition?
Is there anyone else that does something similar to this?
In our area, pretty much no.
The closest ones are just basically data aggregators
that will simply do a sentiment score
on messages and send that in
but the people have to try to figure out exactly what that is.
So it's kind of a do-it-yourself project.
With Hedge Chatter, we've already created
all the alerts, everything on this.
We look at manipulation.
We look at how often people are right or wrong.
And we're able to track all of that information
into one unique dashboard.
Great. Tell me about your team.
So our team's background is pretty impressive.
So, our Chief Technology Officer, Ben Benoy
his background is Georgia Tech
Department of Defense
building decision-based military applications.
So our Chief Technology Architect
his background is big data at NASA
big data Yahoo
big data Zynga
and artificial intelligence.
So what we've done is basically put
kinda, if you will
this military and big data AI together
to basically beat Wall Street.
Great. And what do you think of
the future of this industry is like?
It's changing rapidly, because
the challenge right now is that
everyone can get
any access to any type of information
that's out there for the markets.
So people are demanding, you know, better and better returns.
The challenge is
anyone can have access to any of the information
that's out there now.
So if everybody's using the exact same information
and trying to trade on it
how are they supposed to generate
any type of new returns?
And that's what we've done with HedgeChatter
is we're bringing a new element into it
which is basically social data.
So we basically see this industry exploding
just due to the fact that
people need additional data sources
to help them make better trends.
Do you see any challenges in the industry?
It's really acceptance
because the old way of thinking is
we've never done it before like this
so why would we do it like this.
However, 20 years ago, we weren't talking on cell phones.
Today, we're talking on cell phones.
In fact, one of the, one of our favorite quotes is
from Henry Ford, which was
If I would have asked my customers what they wanted,
they would have said faster horses.
Great. What else would you like to talk about?
You know, I think, you know
if self-directed retail investors
wealth advisors
you know, people with money in the market
you know, especially in Asia
we have a lot of growing influence out there.
It's basically, you know, taking on risk.
Risk mitigation is extremely, extremely important.
And that's another thing that we're able to extract
with social data, is we're able to understand
you know, a lot of people are saying
hey, they think this particular stock's going to go down
and then it actually does.
And we're able to see that again
before technical indicators could happen
before fundamentals.
If you think about it
fundamentally, a company called Lululemon
which is an interesting company.
It looked really good on paper
solid management team
really good forecasted pipeline in growth and opportunities
until the CEO came out and made that particular comment
about certain types of women wearing the yoga pants
and then their stock went from $70 a share
to $40 a share in the span of about 30 days.
Why?
Because he pretty much alienated his entire customer base.
Fundamental data couldn't have picked that up.
Technical indicators couldn't have picked that up.
But with social, we were able to see and gauge that
and understand people saying
You know what?
This stock's probably about to start churning downward.
And enough of those people had influence behind them
to where we were able to say "Yes."
And that's what generates the alert.
So I think, you know, now, especially
people are rapidly accelerating to what we're doing
and I think, in the next, probably, year to two years
people will say, "Okay, I'm going to be
either with a wealth advisor
or I'm going to be trading on a certain brokerage platform
if it has the social media element to it."
I mean, think about it.
Everything is social today
and people understand the true power of that.
Right.
All right, well, thanks a lot.
I appreciate your time.
"- Thank you very much. 
- Good luck."

- Hi! Can you introduce yourself?
-Hi, Jonathan. Yes, name is Adriana Valencia
and I am the program manager for translation and localization,
here at Lumosity.
- Great, so can you tell me a little bit about Lumosity, in general.
- Sure. 
The company was started in 2005,
but the product launched in 2007.
What we do is, that we make brain training games,
that are available on web, on Android, and for iOS.
We have more than 70 million users in 180 countries,
and our product is available in English, plus six other languages.
We're available in German, French, Japanese, Korean,
Spanish, and Portugese.
- That's pretty impressive. 
So, tell me a little bit about the background.
What made the co-founders want to start this company,
and tell me a little bit about what exactly the app does.
- Sure.
 So, our co-founders- well, one of our co-founders, 
Michael Scanlon, he was studying neuroscience
and he thought, "How can I-" or I guess he wondered, 
"How can I make a tool, that helps people train their brains?"
And what the app and what our web program do,
is that they're basically a gym for your brain.
Where you play games that are very much informed and
defined by neuroscience, in that, a few of them take classic
neuroscientific tests and neuro-cognitive tests...
For example, the "stroop" test, and then transform them
 into games that are, actually, pretty fun.
- So, how many apps do you have?
- We have - well, we are - we have an iOS app,
that is different for iPad and iPhone.
So, it accounts for the two different screen sizes,
and we have an Android app, and what our apps do is that, 
they contain games inside of them.
Right now, for mobile, we have 23 games on our app,
but you get the app all at once,
and then you get access to the games, and the amount of - 
that number of games that you can play at any time,
is determined by whether or not you purchase a subscription
- that's our model - 
and on the web, we have more than 40 games.
- Can you explain your subscription model a little bit?
- Sure.
Our subscription is available monthly, annually, 
or as a lifetime subscription, 
and people can get individual, family, or a larger group plans,
and the prices range from, $15 for a single month subscription,
to about $80 for a year subscription.
- Okay, can you tell me a little bit about
the science behind the app?
- Sure.
So, one of the most important teams here at the company,
is the science team. 
The science team is made up of people who have studied, 
neuroscience, cognitive science, psychology, 
and, who have a background in laboratory research.
The way that the company functions, is we have a project,
called the, "Human Cognition Project", 
and what the "Human"-
 - sorry, everyone! -
what the "Human Cognition Project" does,
is that it has partnerships with research institutions.
We have currently, I believe, more than 40 on-going studies,
that use Lumosity game-play data,
and analyze it, to learn - not only more about the potential 
effectiveness of Lumosity, but to learn about
neuro-cognitive function in a larger context.
There are 7 published studies about Lumosity,
and there are more on the way,
and I think one of the most
interesting things about us is that we have more than,
I believe, it's 2 billion game-plays, and,
scientists around the world can use that data
to study different aspects of human cognition.
- Okay. So, I was on the website earlier and I saw lots of-
- employees with Ph.Ds and all these and stuff-
- Yeah.
- Can you describe some of these people?
- Sure. I have a Ph.D!
My Ph.D is in architecture, so it's unrelated to my job here,
but, the people who have Ph.Ds here, who studied science,
and who are a part of the science team,
work, very much, with research institutions to,
for example, to help define the studies that are going on.
They work on data science, to analyze the results
of game-play data that we have.
They work with, for example, scientific labs, again,
To - not necessarily to inform those studies - 
but to help define them, and they also work on
publishing their own papers about what the results
of Lumosity data means.
- How many employees work here?
It seems like there is a very high number of Ph.Ds here.
- I guess - I don't particularly notice it as a very high number 
of Ph.Ds, but yeah, we do have people with Ph.Ds here,
and, there are a total of 160 employees.
The San Francisco office is our headquarters,
and only office,
and the employees here range from engineers,
who work on the web, on Android, on iOS.
The science team, which, very much, guides the company
in terms of what new products it makes, in terms of
the scientific validity of the games that are being made.
There is a games team that designs the games and,
in concert with the science team,
works to validate that those games actually test neuro-cognitive
function and skills and abilities.
And, there's also a customer service team,
which communicates directly with customers
who have any questions.
There are project managers, who have a team that makes a
kid's product called, "LumiKids",
and that product is available, as of last week,
on Android, as well as iOS, for which it launched previously,
and that's available in four languages, plus English,
and it's targeted towards 2-5 year olds.
- Very cool.
So, tell me about the user base -
you said 70 million?
- Yep.
- Is that active users, or total users?
- We have 70 million users.
I don't know what the numbers are,
in terms of any sort of breakdown.
We have 70 million users, 
again, they're in more than 180 countries,
and they use our product in English,
plus 6 other languages.
- Great.
How about your-
What's the revenue model for this kind of company?
- As I mentioned before, 
the model that we have is a subscription service,
and so, users can sign up and use our product for free - 
I don't know if your users have heard this word but, 
it's a "free-mium" model,
in which people can sign-up for free,
and when they sign up for free, they can play games,
but they can only do so
a limited number of times in a day, 
or they can subscribe, and if they subscribe, 
they have access to all 40+ games on web, 
23 on mobile, and they can play those games
as many times as they want in a day.
- Tell me a little bit about your background,
how you came to work here,
how your educational experience, you know,
prepared you for this kind of company.
- Sure.
So, I studied architecture in grad school,
but before that I studied Arabic literature,
and I studied a lot of linguistics,
and I speak,
to a certain amount of proficiency, 8 languages,
and one of the things that, very much interested me,
was working on international product.
After I finished graduate school, 
I worked at Twitter on the international product team
for a while, where I helped make the product available
in more than 35 languages to users across the world,
and, 
after I left Twitter, 
I was looking for a company that hadn't yet
expanded in to too many languages,
where I could really help to make that product
reach more people around the world.
- Wow, okay, great.
Tell me a little bit more about,
what goes on on a day-to-day basis,
like what you do.
- Sure.
So as I mentioned before, I am the program manager
for localization and translation and,
what I do is I work with people around the company,
ranging from the engineers, to the product managers, 
to the customer service team,
to both, get the product out,
and maintain it for non-English languages.
On the very basic level,
what this means is that I help to get the strings that
compose the product, into a platform that we use, 
and then, have those translated,
and we have in-house translators,
who are on the customer service team, 
and they are also our localization specialists,
and after it gets translated, it get's QA'd
to make sure it actually works for the international versions.
There's engineering work that is done,
in terms of making sure that people who are located internationally,
can actually purchase the product, 
with their own currencies, in terms of - 
let's see, there's also work in terms of making sure that,
the fonts, for example,
for Japanese and Korean users actually work.
There's work that happens on the design side,
in terms of making sure that the text,
for example, for German, which has very long words, 
actually fits into the buttons where it should fit,
and yeah, my job is very much one where,
I work with people in all parts of the company.
- You mention before how you spoke
8 different languages-
- Yep.
- to varying degrees.
How did you learn all of those?
What was your second language?
- Sure.
Spanish is my first language,
so English was my second language,
and after that, I took French and Latin in high school,
not counting Latin towards any sort of proficiency,
and when I got to college, 
I thought Arabic looked very pretty,
and I didn't know anything about it,
so I took Arabic and then I took Hebrew,
and then I took German, and then I also took Dutch.
- You sound like a native English speaker,
so explain your background - 
how Spanish is your first language.
- Yeah, sure. 
My parents met in the U.S,
but I was born in Colombia,
in South America
and we moved back to the U.S when I was young,
and I didn't actually speak any English
until I got to school,
and then I just listened a lot,
and I really like to talk, so that helped.
I also-
I spend a lot of time listening to things,
and I like to think that I'm good at 
mimicking the sounds that are in any given language
but it really does take a lot of listening and,
also, I learned to write English
before I could write in Spanish.
- Yeah, I think that is very important
when learning a language.
You have to practice it all the time
- All the time
- So, if you like to speak them,
that's probably a testament to why you
speak so many different languages
- Yeah.
I think it's also very important,
when you're learning a new language,
to make yourself try and speak it
with native speakers as often as you can.
When I lived in Morocco, 
I hung out a lot with my Moroccan neighbors,
and I had no idea what they were saying
for the first week or so,
and then after a while, it got much easier.
But, I think that it's very easy to 
only let yourself be in a place where,
you're not very much outside of your comfort zone,
and it very much helps to make yourself
go outside of your comfort zone and
practice your new languages.
- Right.
Tell me what the meaning is behind the name "Lumosity"
What does that mean?
- That's a really great question!
There is an English language word, "Luminosity",
but I think in very much in the vein of
say, products on the internet,
we are not a real English-language word.
I mean, "Lumos" does mean light in Greek,
so, there' s that.
But our proudct is our own name.
- That's cool, though.
I like that you make your own name
from the word of Latin or Greek, or something.
That's cool.
What's one final thing you would
like to add about Lumosity?
- I've been working here for a little over a year
and I really love it.
I think that our new games are
actually, very, very good,
and I'm not someone who plays very many online games but,
the graphics, the interactions, 
and the goals of the new games are a lot of fun
and I would definitely recommend that people with kids
check out "LumiKids", our kids' product,
because those games are a lot of fun,
and not just for 2-5 year olds.
They're just very simple games
that don't have any words in the actual games,
and they test kids on skills-
Well, it's not so much tests,
but they help kids build skills like,
sharing, and matching, and,
overall, they're a lot of fun
and I think the graphics are wonderful.
- Great.
Alright, well thank you very much for speaking with us
- Okay, my pleasure.
- Thank you!
- Thanks.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Hi, my name is Luma.
I am a mother, a very proud mother,
and a wife,
and the co-founder of Trending5000
I am a computer engineer and with-
I've been full-time job for quite some time.
And we start-
Me and my husband decided that we wanted to start our own business.
We thought that entrepreneurship, in the Middle East,
is becoming really high.
And a lot of people are starting their own businesses
and startups
So, we thought that we would create a platform for them.
that would make them exist in one place,
and the people can actually search them
and the keywords and categories.
And they would get business leads,
and be found by their consumers.
So, people can come and search under keywords and categories
and can find these startups and small businesses.
They would sustain them in business
and keep them going,
And hopefully not close down or fade out after some time.
We also introduce investors on our website.
So they can have a look and register,
and have a look at the startups
that are available on our website.
And if they're interested in something or one of the startups,
they can contact them.
We can arrange for them some financial information
that they require and talk them together.
Great, where are you based,
and where are your clients, investors, and startups coming from?
Okay, we are based in Dubai,
but we are covering the entire Middle East.
Well, I mean partially,
now we are covering the GCC countries.
Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt.
Hopefully, in the next phase,
we will go towards the MENA region as well,
which is the North African region.
Great, okay.
And tell me a little bit about the history of your company.
What made you want to start this company?
What's your previous experience like?
I've worked in- I'm a computer engineer, but
I've worked all my time in marketing
and- as well as my husband as well.
He comes from a consultancy background.
We've seen so many great ideas around us honestly.
And they are just amazing ideas,
and they can help us, help our life, help others.
But the thing is they don't get much business
because people don't- cannot find them, unless
they depend on Facebooks and the Twitters and
the Instagrams of the world and
unless they know them by name,
they will not be found.
And they are actually synced in the social media that's existing now.
So, we thought that it's- We would be doing some kind of
social help for the people around us,
and keep them in business,
especially if they have great ideas.
This is the whole drive behind Trending5000.
Are there any other companies like yourselves
operating in the Middle East, helping Middle East startups?
We have- In the same sense that our company is,
unfortunately, no.
We saw this kind of business around the world
and we thought it would be a great idea
to be implemented in the Arab world and in the Middle East.
As I told you,
the exact competitor, we don't much have.
But in a different section,
in our offerings, we might have
in the small and bits and pieces.
But not like the exact website.
Right.
Do you see startups in the Middle East growing in the future?
Or how do you see that changing?
Yes.
Actually, we feel that
the entrepreneurship spirit is really high
and in the coming generations in the Middle East,
and everyone is having great ideas,
and they want to implement them.
They're opening their minds and globally
and thinking of how they want to help their countries,
and help themselves,
and help others
by even employing them in their companies.
So, it is coming towards a great generation.
thinking of entrepreneurship now.
Great. Awesome.
What else would you like to add about your company?
Trending5000 is the hub- will be the hub in the Middle East
for startups and small businesses.
We will link them with their stakeholders.
That is either being consumers, or
look for their services,
or investors, who wants to invest in them.
We will also have the trendsetters in our website,
who would be also connecting them.
The social trendsetters,
the entrepreneurs of the Middle East,
also exist in our website.
And hopefully linking them to the brands
and the homegrown brands in each country.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're most welcome.
I appreciate it, and good luck.
Thank you so much.

Can you introduce yourself?
My name is Jorge Dewey and I'm with onepayapp.com.
All right tell me about OnePay.
OnePay app is built on the premise of creating a win-win situation.
So we're your one-stop-shop for consolidating monthly bills.
So that means 
that this is the only place that you need to access
to pay all your online bills.
Now the real value here,
is that our proprietary algorithm analyzes your bills 
and finds areas of opportunity to save you money. 
Would that interest you?
That's pretty interesting.
Pretty interesting.
Let me give you an example.
Let's say you were paying for 10 gigabytes of data a month
on your cell phone.
Right?
And most people don't go in there 
and analyze how much data they're actually using, right?
So our system picks up after a few months, like,
"Hey. You're paying for 10 gigabytes,
but you're actually only using 4 or 5 a month."
And we provide a suggestion to say 
you should lower your plan and save money.
Interesting. Do you have any competitors?
Well we do have indirect competitors.
Of course.
Something like mint.com you might be familiar with.
The way I like to describe the difference is 
mint.com provides you the platform to do it.
Which is great. Lovely service, right?
But we take your hand and we take you through the whole process.
Also we provide the month to month analytics
which is gonna help you save money.
And another cool feature that we add
is that, if at the end of the month, 
your bill comes out to be a little bit over your average spending,
right, we actually front you that difference for that month,
so your bill is not late,
and then you can pay us back next month. 
Nice.
Yeah.
All right. So where are you based?
And tell me about your team a little bit.
So we are based in Austin, Texas.
Ok. This company was actually founded by my brother
and his friend.
They are the co-founders.
They are the brainchilds of this operation.
All of us recently graduated college back in December.
And in an effort to get out there 
and create something for ourselves
and help the world,
OnePay was born.
We're very excited because living in Austin,
we had the opportunity to expose ourselves to the world,
first at South by Southwest,
which is a great platform for technology as well. 
And since then we've had only organic growth.
So right now we're at the point 
where we're looking for the right people to help us 
grow to the next level.
How was your experience at South by Southwest?
The experience of South by South is great.
I gotta tell you,
I've been there many times, as an attendee, you know,
looking at the music festivals and all that.
But going as a company you really get noticed a lot.
Because there's a lot of components to it.
When you have a badge,
people turn around and they wanna see what you're all about.
So it was really exciting 
and we really appreciate everyone that visited.
Awesome. So where do you see the future of this industry?
The future of this industry?
Well you know the online finances is growing a lot.
If we can achieve a way to make payments more ubiquitious,
around the whole nation and the around the whole world. 
I think that's where it's headed.
Okay.
And do you have any plans to expand?
Yes most definitely.
We do wanna expand to other countries.
Right now we're nationwide.
All over the United States you can use our service.
But we do also realize that every culture, 
every economy is different.
So we wanna make sure we really get it down here in the U.S.,
we wanna grow here first,
and then we're gonna start expanding to other nations.
Latin America, Europe, and even Asia.
Awsome. All right.
Yeah.
So tell me a little bit about your business model.
Our business model.
I'm glad you asked Jonathan.
First of all we give you a month free, right?
I mean that's almost basic in any service. 
And then for every person you refer 
we give you another month free.
Now $9.99 dollar subscription per month.
Now our idea and our goal 
is to save you more than what you're paying us.
Okay so in the long run you're going to be saving money.
We do have many plans for the future.
One of them might be, one of them will be,
that difference that you're saving,
we'll put it into a savings account for you.
So you already budgeted,
you already thought you were gonna spend that money,
but instead of spending it, 
we're saving it for you.
And that's just one of the options to come.
Tell me about your educational background.
My educational background? 
So, I went to the Univeristy of Texas at San Antonio.
That's not where I started actually.
I started in Florida studying communications.
And soon I realized that I really like communications
but I love business more.
So I moved to Texas, being closer to my hometown,
and I started studying international business. 
Halfway through that I took a marketing class.
And I realized that marketing was what I loved.
So I ended up doing both majors.
International business and Marketing.
I just graduated in December,
and I'm very excited to go out there 
and make it happen in the world.
All right. Well, Jorge. Thanks a lot. I appreciate it.
Jonathan, appreciate it. Thank you very much.
Thanks.

- Alright, Hi. 
Can you introduce yourself?
- Sure.
I'm Joan Segura from Mexico City.
- Alright.
and tell me what you do.
- We are the only equity crowd-funding platform in Mexico.
What we're trying to do is to
boost the start-up equus system in Mexico,
and in the whole Latin America
but of course, we start in Mexico because we live there
- So, give me some more background.
What made you want to start this business?
And what do you do differently?
- Well, what we do differently is that
almost every equity crowd-funding platform,
you need to be a credit investor.
Which means, you need to have $50,000 in your wallet
to invest in a startup
With us, because we made a legal structure that allow it,
we can- I mean, you can invest with only $6 bucks
or something like that
in start-ups based in Mexico or,
in the near future,
Latin American and probably the U.S.
- Great.
Tell me about your team and,
you know,
your plan for the future.
- Well, right now
We are 8- 9 members in the team.
There's the founder, me - I'm the co-founder
We have a team.
Most of them help us with marketing, PR,
graphic design, 
and of course, sales,
where we teach and help entrepreneurs,
to reach investors,
and you know,
know how to pitch,
what to pitch,
and when to pitch, 
and everything about that.
But I guess that, 
the highlights or the key points
that we will do in the future, is that
two members of the team will go in July to MIT.
One of them will study at MIT,
the other one will study at Babson College.
We will open offices over there.
We will use, probably, MIT resources
and we will try to do what we're doing here
I mean -
what we're doing in Mexico,
here in the United States.
What we will do is that we will open a channel 
for Americans to invest
in Latin American or Hispanic start-ups
and, that's what I said,
you don't need to be a credit investor.
You can just invest - I don't know - 
$6, or $10.
Dip your toes in the water
and feel how it's to be an investor.
I mean, try it out and then,
If you like it - and I'm sure you're going to like it
because it's fun - 
then you might find like, cool start-ups
to invest in and,
start changing the world
one start-up at a time.
- So, take me through the process.
How does one invest?
What are the steps that they need to do?
- It's actually really easy
You go online the platform,
you go to discover,
where you can see all other projects.
We have 20 raising money right now,
and at least 300 that will be raising money in the next months.
So you just check around the web page,
see the elevator pitch of each and every start-ups.
If you like one,
you can click on it and see the pitch deck
you know,
financial projections, and budgets,
thigs like that
And if you are interested,
you just go on Invest, 
swipe your credit card,
It's as easy as that, 
and of course,
you just put an ID so that we can
identificate you as a person or, 
as an institution.
We will make a digital signature out of that,
and - boom - you're an investor of a start-up.
- That's awesome.
Have your heard of any-
What kind of traction do you have or,
what kind of clients do you have-
- Well, 
we've already partnered with the
3 biggest universities in Mexico.
They're sending us tons of projects.
We've partnered with StartUp Mexico,
which is the biggest start-up accelerator 
in Mexico.
One of our angels investors is
"Marc Cusantos"
He's a former director of Wayra,
which is the Spanish-
the biggest Spanish accelerator.
We will go to MIT.
We are doing some stuff with the Government,
to catch more investors and start-ups.
I think we have pretty good traction.
Of course, we could be doing better but,
we launched our Beta phase
on February and,
we have raised a little bit less than
$1 million dollars since then,
and 300 start-ups,
and funded 6.
Things are moving pretty fast
- That's awesome.
Well, congratulations and good luck!
- Thank you.
- I appreciate it.
- Thank you very much.

Hello! Could you introduce yourself?
Yeah, my name is Jim Redpath. 
I work for Parhelion. 
We're a laser manufacturing company. 
I am the Chief Operating Officer.
All right, could you tell me about the name of your company?
What does it mean?
Well, "parhelion" is Greek for "splitting light," 
and what we do is we leverage laser light by splitting it 
to create new ways of lighting that we feel will save lives, 
and we're able to light new areas, 
and of course, we only use 1 watt of power in doing that.
How are you able to only use 1 watt of power?
What kind of technologies are you...?
Laser light is very efficient.
So the actual draw, if you were to compare it with halogen,
and run it on a 9-volt battery,
it'd probably last about one minute.
If you run our light bulb on a 9-volt battery,
it would last about 5 hours.
It's just the efficiency of converting electricity to photons.
You mentioned something about saving lives.
What kind of products do you have,
and how do they save lives?
One of the aspects of coherent light that we've developed,
and it's not a matter of just using a single laser.
We control a laser at a nanotechnology that we have,
able to split the beams and control the power in a certain,
I'll say "pattern," I'm not supposed to say that,
and we're able to see through smoke, like night vision.
So imagine, if you're in a building and you have a light,
the emergency lights,
they create a natural fog, like your headlights,
and you can't see.
When you run our light, you actually see everything
like night vision glasses, and it demarcates
outlining objects, and you're able to get out of there.
How are you disrupting the market?
What, are you, replacing any previous technology?
Yeah, I think a few technologies we may replace.
And at that respect, using ingress lighting, which is escape lighting 
at hospitals and public buildings and commercial buildings,
the tube, or the subway as you call it.
We can replace those lights with these emergency lights
that will give you an advantage of escape and longer time.
Current lights last about 90 minutes,
and we can give you 1600 minutes, you see?
So in that respect, we've also created a new lighting model
that we can use for home theaters.
Home theater lighting usually have a sconce
and you see the light,
and it puts a glare on your television set.
Using our lights, there's no glare,
and you can light up the whole area in a nice,
soothing mood.
What's your business model?
Business model respects to different channels,
I think that's what you're talking about,
is that we want to be a supplier for the manufacturer.
So those manufacturers that sell current lighting,
they would incorporate our bulb in their products.
On the other hand, 
we're going to come out with a consumer product as well
that you can buy, you know your standard light bulb off the shelf
and maybe use it for your home theater in the house,
or maybe in your swimming pool,
or landscaping.
Tell me about your previous work experience.
What were you involved in in the past
and how did it lead you to become an entrepreneur?
My brother and I,
I have a twin brother,
were actually entrepreneurs very young.
We had our own lawn business
and we charged people for that,
so we were into that.
Early, when I was in high school and college,
I was working for a company,
I won't say their name,
and they made their own internal machines.
So all the parts inside the machines, they manufactured themselves
because they didn't want to patent them.
So I was involved with the actual manufacturing process
and the blueprints of these machines,
and how they make the parts.
From then on, I went to college
and I worked in R&D for Stanford Research
doing DARPA top-secret type of developments
of new products, new things.
Some of the stuff you see today there
was top secret in the late 1980's.
You're seeing it today.
So I got involved with that. And then,
I moved on, working for an oil company
and building different industries,
developing refineries, that type of stuff.
And we decided, we're getting old,
to come together, my brother and his knowledge of lasers,
to create our own product, and maybe do our own business.
How do you see this expanding for you?
What we're doing is we're stumbling across different technologies
in laser. When we started developing our laser
and resolving some of the complex problems:
cooling, power, manufacturing.
Lasers today are manufactured by hand.
So it's a very slow process,
and we've invented a way and patented
to manufacture lasers in production line.
It's very quick, in that respect.
As we tested the laser in developing it for seeing through smoke,
we stumbled across many other uses for lasers,
for example, in the medical field.
We're able to use our laser wavelength to see different antigens
inside blood.
So you can imagine what you could see,
I mean, you could detect malaria, see, is one of the things.
They're also, since we can see through smoke,
we can also see through murky waters.
So we have deep sea lighting that we're looking into,
and apparently, there's a lot for deep sea lighting.
We've also found that, in running the laser technology
we have, is that we eliminate shadows.
So we actually sell a consumer product 
that you use inside a tent.
And you can run it inside your tent,
and nobody can see you from the outside.
There are no shadows.
You become invisible as soon as you turn the light on.
So there are many uses for the light.
Have you started with sales yet?
Yes we are.
Our initial progress is to have a consumer product
that we put out there
so that we can accelerate our patent award.
We actually call this a laser lamp, and sell it as a night light.
It's a utility light.
We're right now developing a bowl to be used with a down light,
an ingress light, for emergency.
So in that respect, we've got those two products coming out first.
One is actually for sale.
Now, today, you can buy it on our website.
And the other one is coming up.
What about any B2B opportunities?
Business to business?
Business to business is, 
we would be a supplier to an integrative light source,
mostly recessed lamps. 
They make the recessed unit itself,
and then the light bulb is provided by like GE or Philips.
That's what we do.
We provide the light bulb that goes inside your unit.
So there are many opportunities for OEME.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

All right. Could you introduce yourself?
My name is Norman Smith.
I am with PayLive Inc.
which is a brand new, wonderful, startup
that is presenting here at Collision.
What we do is we monetize time.
We figured a way to monetize time through the internet.
Streaming videos, streaming anything.
Anything that takes time,
we can calculate the time that is being used,
with the price that is being charged for that time.
That way people that are consuming this streaming video
or this content,
will only pay for the content that they're using,
or that they're watching.
We basically have 3 types of users.
We have the sellers,
which are the people that are sending out the information,
the content.
We have buyers, the people that are watching it.
And we have the sponsors, 
people that may be sponsoring that live streaming.
The seller,
and there's an infinite way of using this system,
but we're trying to make things clear or to explain things.
We use the example of an artist or celebrity
who wants to stream special content.
Exclusive content that his fans or his followers would like to pay for,
and we imbed the payment system.
We are basically the cashier of this event.
On their website, 
they inform their followers
that they're going to be streaming this particular event.
Their followers have accounts with PayLive
where they have a wallet.
They replenish their wallets with a certain amount of time,
a value, 
and they have the ability to switch on or off what they're receiving,
the content they're receiving.
When they switch it on, 
automatically, in real time,
in a predetermined amount of time,
it could be a minute, or every ten minutes,
whatever the seller decides,
and what price that time is valued at.
The seller starts receiving from the buyers,
from the people viewing,
that money into their account.
And it's leaving the person who's watching it,
leaves their account.
So it's a fair and square way
to buy something over the internet, to buy live.
And you don't have to prepay anything
or prepay an amount that you may not even consume.
You don't have to pay at the end of anything,
you're not gonna get a bill.
Because these payments are processed and settled live.
As time goes on.
So it allows for content, I guess to be better,
because if you want the people to stay on
looking at your content, or taking it in,
it has to be good enough for them not to switch you off.
It can be done in many different ways.
Different levels.
You can have a whole concert being live streamed
with multiple cameras
where the buyer or the user can switch between camera angles.
Each camera angle can have a determined price.
And so on. You can do that.
The program, the software allows the seller
to live, on the go, be able to divvy up the income
between up to 5 people.
So if it's an artist, 
he knows I'll get this percentage, the venue gets so much,
the company that is creating the streaming will get his cut.
So it can all be predetermined by the seller,
who gets what at what time.
And if there's a sponsor involved,
the sponsor, it'll be announced to the users,
that you know, you're not paying anything,
because there's a sponsor.
And they may have to tolerate a bug or something.
Or they will know at the beginning of the event
that they're not gonna pay anything 
because the sponsor is paying for their use.
This way the sponsor only pays for the eyeballs
that are watching it at the time.
So if the event is a dud,
the sponsor only has to pay for the 3 guys that saw the event.
If it's successful, then obviously the sponsor will have more benefit,
and he will pay accordingly to the beenfit that he's getting from that.
Basically it could be a big event like that,
it can be a smaller scale, it can be maybe this artist
only wants to stream certain behind the scenes content
that nobody really sees.
And then in addition to his normal streaming event
or broadcast event,
his fans can also log in
and watch all this other additional material.
Which means it's an added revenue stream for the whole concert
or event that's being put on.
And it could also be used on a one-on-one basis.
Not necessarily live streaming.
I can have the app on my phone if I'm a consultant,
and somebody wants to ask me a question,
I could tell that person, I could invite that person 
to ask me the question.
He knows how much I charge per minute.
If he agrees we both get hooked up together.
And he receives the information that he wants
and if he thinks the information is useless,
he could just shut me off and that's it.
He only paid for what he took.
So it's a way of making consuming time fair.
And in many cases, advertising free.
Which we think will also better the content.
And give people the opportunity to enjoy things in a fair way.
So to speak.
Great. So tell me about your team
and what made you guys start this company?
The team is very interesting 
because all of the brain power is located in Colombia, South America
Specifically in a city called Manizales.
It's up in a mountain, in a plateau in a mountain,
so we call it Silicon Mountain as opposed to Silicon Valley.
And we have people in Austria,
we have people in Dubai,
I'm here in the U.S.
and the rest of the team is in Medell n, Colombia. 
So pretty international group.
It's a relatively small group 
and we're at the stage where we want to bring in some more capital
to go to the next level.
Our system is patent pending in the United States
and it's something that really does not exist.
You tell people we have a way to monetize live streaming
and people say "Why?" if it's always for free.
The reason why it's free is because nobody's figured out 
how to charge for it, in this manner.
You pay a subscription fee,
you can pay time blocks
or so on.
But it doesn't exist,
a situation where you just pay for what you're consuming.
The way it all came about,
was that our, the brain, the person who kind of figured this out,
or thought about it first,
had just finished giving someone incredible advice.
They got together in a cafe
and this person know that our founding partner 
had a lot of knowledge, very good knowledge,
it would possibly solve a problem that he had.
And they sat down, they were friends.
And they sat down together over a cup of coffee
and he just said "This is what you need to do."
And he went off to that information to the other guy
and made a bundle of money,
and the guy said "I just gave this guy all this information
and I didn't get anything for it.
What would happen if I could figure out 
how to monetize the time that I gave him?"
And that's where it all started.
Great. 
So we've been 4 and 1/2, almost 5 years, 
figuring it all out.
We have all the secret sauce,
it's all working perfectly.
It's in a beta stage.
And it's a wonderful opportunity for,
we believe, it's going to change the way people are paying for 
and distributing content.
Any kind of streaming content.
Live content.
A way to augment the revenue for artists,
for people, and...
All right. Well Norman thanks a lot for your time.
I appreciate it. Thank you very much.
Best of luck. 

Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Yeah. I'm Rose Wang 
and I'm CEO and Co-Founder of Parcel Puppy.
Great. Tell me a little bit about Parcel Puppy.
So we're a peer-to-peer marketplace
that allows you to buy things 
that are difficult to buy in your local markets.
So what that means is,
if you want something from the United States,
and you live in Asia, 
we would match you up with someone who is American,
lives in the U.S.,
who will go buy the good for you in their local stores
and ship it to your door over in Asia.
Great. 
So how do you find the people in America to go buy the goods?
So actually there are tons of people who are interested
and a lot of it is through social media.
So we will put out an ad,
whether on Craigslist, or Facebook groups, 
and people who are looking for odd jobs.
And not only are they looking for odd jobs,
people who really want flexibility with their time.
So we find that a lot of artists,
people who are into becoming an actor or an actress
or students, are really interested in working with us
because of those flexible hours.
So tell me about your business model.
So what we do is,
let's say you want to buy something from Asia,
and I'm living in the United States,
so you would make a request on our platform,
and you would say, like, 
"Hi. My name is (blank)
and I am looking for chocolate chip cookies from New York City."
And what we would do is,
we would match you up with someone living in New York City 
who can go into the grocery store, buy those chocolate chip cookies,
put them in a box, and send it to you.
The only catch is, so you would pay them ten dollars.
That's it.
You would pay for the good, so you'd pay for the cookies,
you'd pay for the shipping, and you pay ten bucks, that's it.
We actually take no fee.
What we're passionate about is to create a community
that really connects people around the world
and empowers them to buy things that they can't normally buy.
And we want to empower local economies.
So that's sort of how we work. 
Great. Tell me what countries have you worked with so far?
Are you in Asia, Europe, all over the place?
We're all over the place. 
I can tell you about
some interesting things I've transacted on our site.
We had someone who ordered a bike rack from Asia
and the bike rack was twenty kilograms,
and they got it shipped all the way over to San Francisco.
We had someone else who wanted candy from Norway
and so, Norway was sent all the way from...
I think, yeah, from Norway all the way over to San Francisco as well.
We have other transactions more through Europe and Asia.
So a lot of times those are cosmetic products.
So, Asian cosmetics are very popular lately.
They're going over into Europe.
So anything you can think of, 
like these are the things that people like to order.
Ok so tell me about the, in this industry, 
where do you see the future going?
So in the future what we'd love to see 
is a moment where you walk into, 
let's say an American grocery store,
and you see stuff from all over the world. 
Stuff from Asia, stuff from South America, more stuff from Europe.
What I think you currently have right now is,
a growing trend in Asian cosmetics in the United States for example,
and a lack of venues of distribution.
So people are having a hard time buying these things.
You know, you can try on Amazon, you can try on eBay,
but a lot of times it takes like a very long time  
for these goods to reach you in the U.S.
or they're simply unavailable
Tell me about your previous experiences and education background.
So I studied Economics at Columbia University,
so I've been in New York for a very long time now.
I think that really helped prepare me for my job on Wall Street.
So I worked in finance.
And so having that Economic background
and kind of thinking about the world 
in terms of game theory, industrial organization, 
I think has really carried me quite far in my career.
And when did you decide to become an entrepreneur?
Oh, I think I always had it in me.
But I think for the longest time, 
you know, 
you know this is going to be the most difficult thing
you've ever done in your life. 
So, you know, it's not just the hard work, 
it's the fact that this is your baby.
And this is something that you would never want to let fail.
And I think it's something that I had been thinking about,
even when I was working on Wall Street,
but didn't really know what idea I wanted to work on.
And it wasn't until after I left my job as a hedge fund investor,
that I began to travel more,
and I saw the problem that we're trying to solve. 
I lived in Asia for eight months while I was traveling,
and I lived in Europe for three months while I was traveling,
and I found that a lot of the basic things I wanted,
like a certain type of deodorant, 
things that you wouldn't think of,
were not available in those markets.
And so that's how I came up with this idea.
Awesome. 
You mentioned briefly about your work experience. 
Can you expand upon that?
Uh-huh.
So after Columbia I worked on Wall Street.
So I started out in mergers and acquisitions at J.P. Morgan
here in New York as well.
So, you know, it's a really exciting job
because you get to travel all over the place, 
you get to interact with CEOs and CFOs 
and really focus on valuation work. 
So I had a lot of familiarity looking at different types of companies 
and figuring out how much they're worth. 
And at the same time it was really fun
because you actually get to interact with clients.
After that I worked at a hedge fund.
So, at a hedge fund, you do the same types of valuation work,
but you're actually starting to invest millions of dollars 
to a particular position.
And what makes that really fun for me is that,
because you're doing public market investing,
you can invest in any type of company
that's out publicly traded.
So S&P 500, Dow Jones, 
and it's really rewarding.
Actually it's really funny as well 
because not only was I traveling a lot in banking,
but at the hedge fund I got to go to places like Korea, Taiwan, 
and meet with a lot of companies out there as well.
Cool. Now you've been in San Francisco,
you've been in New York, 
tell me about the difference in business life, culture.
Oh I think the culture is totally different.
It's really fun.
I think New Yorkers tend to be more professional,
not saying that people in San Francisco are not, 
but they're much more casual,
they're much more relaxed. 
Both cities you have people who are really, really focused
on their particular careers.
But I think in a very different way. 
I think in New York it's much more about professionalism,
it's much more of a finance and fashion kind of town.
Whereas in San Francisco, 
it's much more of a tech startup kind of town,
so people are more interested in building 
and creating something for the future.
Not saying people in New York are not into that, 
I just think that you definitely see a marked difference between that.
And then also in what people do for fun.
I think New Yorkers like to play in the city.
They like to try out new restaurants,
the latest gallery opening, museums...
Whereas in San Francisco, 
it's much more about having a dinner party with friends at home
or going hiking and going to the beach.
Okay. Going back to your company,
do you have any competitors and if so how do you compare to them?
We do have competitors but I think what we're doing is truly unique.
So, if I say a competitor, it would be something like Amazon or eBay.
Because sometimes you have individual sellers 
who are selling something on Amazon or eBay,
but what makes it difficult is sometimes,
if you're someone who is living in Asia, 
and you're someone who's living in North America,
it's very difficult to see what the other wants. 
Because you're just simply not in that situation. 
We allow maximum flexibility
because you're actually able to request goods on our site.
So if you're looking for something in the U.S. for example
that, you know, someone is not selling on Amazon or eBay,
we can find that for you. 
And that makes us very exciting and unique.
And not only can we find that for you, 
you don't have to shop from one store. 
So it's not like you go to one platform
and you buy everything in one place.
It's someone who is actually going 
into those local stores to find something.
If you're looking for, 
let's say those cookies, or a notebook, or a cosmetic item,
we can actually put all of those in one box for you 
and send it to your door. 
Is Parcel Puppy available via the web? App? What do you use?
We use a web app 
so you can check us out at www.parcelpuppy.com
We love having people with an international background.
That's the core essence of our site, 
building the international community.
Now, do people who work for you.. individuals, 
do they have to speak other languages? 
How do they communicate with each other? 
Most people speak English to some degree. 
I mean, we have...
My co-founder actually speaks five different languages.
So it's really interesting to see all the different languages
that transact on our platform. 
But primarily it happens in English. 
Tell me a little bit about your team.
How many members do you have? 
Where are you currently and how do you see yourself expanding?
All those kinds of things.
So we're a small team right now. 
There are four of us.
There are two co-founders. 
We have a very, very diverse background.
I think we represent seven different countries,
in some way, shape or form, 
whether through nationality or ethnicity, 
or through some type of travel. 
Another exciting thing is that we have a (?) on our team.
That in itself is a scholarly program 
that incorporates people from all over the world.
My co-founder herself is from Romania,
she studied in Munich, 
and she's the person who speaks five different languages 
that we spoke of.
What do you look for when you hire people? 
We look for people who are passionate about the product,
who really understand the need that we're trying to serve,
and who are really passionate 
about bringing that to the rest of the world.
We look for people who are well traveled, 
who have the international mindset, 
who preferably are multi or bi-cultural.
If they speak more than one language it's definitely a plus, 
but again, English is the primary language that we transact in. 
Is there anything else you'd like to mention 
about your company or your service?
No, I think that's it.
All right. Well thanks a lot. I appreciate it.
Okay, thank you so much for your time. 
Okay, thank you.

Hello. Could you introduce yourself?
Yeah. I'm Richard Redpath. 
I'm the CTO of Parhelion Incorporated 
and we make a laser light bulb called the LDG.
LDG is an acronym for a laser diffraction grating.
And you can see this little hole,
it's only 2 millimeters,
and what comes out of here is 400 light beams. 
And we can light a room, for emergency lighting, 
and go through smoke.
And that's what our product is all about. 
Wow. So describe the technology and how it works. 
Okay. So what we have here is destination lighting
and so if I put this in ceiling, this would not be lit up.
So 400 laserbeams come up and hit the wall
and splat the wall with light. 
So now all my walls and floor are lit
and if smoke enters the room
I can actually navigate myself 
and that's through this 2 millimeter hole right here.
So basically if your room fills with smoke,
it allows you to see, basically.
Yes. Today with recessed emergency lighting, 
when the light goes on, and that's where the smoke is,
you're blinded, you can't see anything,
and the first thing the firemen do is break those lights.
And you'd wonder why would they break the lights,
because they can't see each other 
and they started banging into each other 
with 125 pounds of weight that they're carrying
and they start getting concussions and other things. 
What made you, or what made the company start? 
What was the reason for starting?
Well, you know, the funny thing is,
I've done lasers for the past 20 years
and I started to take a look at the laser for lighting 
and working with diffraction gratings
and thought, you know I think I could solve this problem 
in a new way. And that's how it began. 
But what we have out in the market today 
is a commercial product that you can use for a night light. 
And it uses the technology that's inside this bulb,
but we've been doing this for 2 years 
to see how well our passive cooling system would work. 
And our passive cooling system was working really well. 
So now we're making a light bulb.
And we hope to outfit our first hospital with this bulb.
So who are your clients mostly?
Well our clients as a startup company,
we're hoping to supply this hospital with 500 bulbs.
They're gonna be the smartest hospital in the world,
is what they say,
and that's in Bahrain. 
Great. So tell me could this be used in the homes as well?
Yes. Well another vertical market,
that's what we call these, vertical markets,
our first one is emergency lighting 
and the other vertical market is for theater lighting.
Or we have hope to attach these to smoke detectors.
Because they use very low voltage. 
A smoke detector today cannot use an LED light bulb. 
Because if you put an LED on there,
you wouldn't hear any sound
because they use a lot of energy for the sound of the detector.
But this thing just integrates right in there,
and now you can have lighting with your smoke. 
Do you have any competitors in the market?
Zero competitors and all the patents.
Wow. What kind of patents are you working on?
We have patents for passive cooling,
which is what's in the laser here.
We have a patent for the nanotechnology 
for the laserbeams that come out.
We have a patent for the cooling system
and we make our own laser. 
So you said you've been working with lasers in the past,
tell me about your...
In the past, about 20 years ago I did a laser project 
for the National Science Fair and won 3rd place. 
In high school.
So tell me about what you've done up until now. 
Until now?
I've been involved in software
and worked for IBM for about 20 years
and decided to do a startup company with lasers
because I've always been interested in lasers
and that's where we're at. 
And where are you based and where are you hoping to expand?
We're based in Cary, North Carolina 
and we also have an office in the Netherlands
and we also have an office in Bahrain. 
And that's why we have the Bahrain connection. 
So where do you see the future of this industry going?
I see the future,  
well there are a few other vertical markets I haven't mentioned
like subsea lighting, and they light up the ocean floor
because we go through turbidity,
which is a fancy name for smoke detection 
and then we can see security issues.
So you put this in a warehouse, lots of boxes and 
hallways and stuff,
and we go right through those, around those boxes,
we create no shadows.
So you can use it for security.
Or the petroleum industry where they have all these pipes outside,
you try to light pipes,
you get shadows all over the place.
You get no shadows with this bulb.
So is it just one vertical light coming out, or how does it...?
Well what happens is, 
the bulb would be sitting up here 
and the laser beam would go through this 2 millimeter hole
and 400 laser beams would go out. 
Best analogy I could say is,
today we have source lighting and this is destination lighting.
Source lighting works like this:
put a can of paint in the middle of the room
and explode that can of paint 
and all your walls are painted. 
But you have a mess here, which is the pool,
and that's what source lighting is.
So you say "Where's the source right here?"
But instead have somebody stand there with a paintball gun,
and shoot 400 paintballs. 
Your room is painted, but right in the center there's no light at all.
It's just deffracting the light all over the place.
Yep.
Amazing. All right. 
Well good luck. Is there anything else you'd like to mention?
Yeah. You need to get one of these.
All right, all right. Thanks a lot, I appreciate it.
Thank you. 

Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Yes. Absolutely.
My name is Josh Jacobs.
I'm the CMO and co-founder of Rhymeo.
Rhymeo is a freestyle rapping app/network
for any type of user.
So if you're a beginner rapper
and you've always had friends at parties 
who always rapped in front of you or did freestyling.
In cyphers where it's a circle of MCs showcasing their rap abilities.
Now is the perfect opportunity for you to learn how to do that
with our app.
Awesome. So people who aren't rappers
or who aren't really good at.
They could just use your app and it'll help them?
Absolutely. 
And it goes beyond rap.
It goes into improv comedy.
It also goes into education with the youth.
The beauty of freestyle rapping
is when people throw words at you,
your mind starts to think
and connect these words that you never thought of.
So the tools that our app provides,
it gives you pictures and words at the same time
and when you tap on the picture,
and you tap on the words,
you're gonna be connecting that
so you never even knew it existed before.
Great. So how does it work?
How did you develop this?
Yeah.
So it happened a year and a half ago.
My best friend Justin,
he went to school to develop apps.
He went for interactive design,
and we were just hanging out like old times.
I moved to San Francisco 6 months prior to the idea,
and we were just hanging out,
and the idea just came to me, like,
"Hey man, you've heard me rap all the time.
How can I avoid that part of my freestyle where I'm about to slip?"
So he said, "I can make an app for that."
So I said, 
"Well can it provide the next word for me, that I'm about to lose?"
He said "I can do that in 2 days."
He did that 3 days later on a website.
A year and a half later, we're here at Collision and we're presenting.
And we just pitched to Mike Shinoda.
Behind the stage. 
That was pretty cool.
That was a really big moment for us.
Wow that's really great.
Absolutely. 
So is there anyone else that does something similar to this?
There's other platforms out there like Rapchat.
There's also AutoRap by Smule.
But they don't include the pictures or the tools 
that we're really gunning for.
They're more showcasing like
say a sentence and it turns it into a rap.
Or more so, do a rap and send it to a friend.
So it's not really teaching you how to do it,
it's really just saying do it and share.
So, that's exactly their platform.
Ours is a little different where you can actually share it,
and you could also learn how to do the fundamentals of hip hop.
It's very educational.
Absolutely. Extremely educational for any type of user.
We range from 13 to 35. 
And what about your demographics?
Absolutely.
So again covering technology, 
covering video games, 
also covering the hip hop realm of course,
where hip hop or freestyling was founded and really started.
Also technology is where we're going with this.
So for the youth as well,
it's a great learning tool.
Cool. So where are your users based? Where are they?
Right now we actually launched 2 weeks ago.
Within those 2 weeks we're averaging 70 downloads a day.
We just rolled out Facebook advertisements as well.
Not so much doing advertising on Twitter yet,
so we're just focusing on Facebook.
Right now we're at 700 downloads.
We've already broken internationally.
So we're in China right now.
We're in Sweden right now.
We already had a write-up in The Guardian in London.
A French magazine just wrote about us the other day.
And we actually had to have one of our friends 
translate the entire article for us.
So it was a great time.
Wow that's amazing.
Yeah. Yeah.
What else would you like to talk about?
Absolutely.
So I'd just love to show the app if I could.
Yeah. Sure. Go ahead.
Absolutely.
So in my pocket here I have Rhymeo.
So here's our logo to get familiar with it.
Now the whole world knows the password in my phone.
It's okay.
So what you see right here is the actual feed.
So when you're looking at the feed,
it looks like an Instagram,
however it's not a still shot.
It is actually a video.
So it captures the freestyling experience.
When you tap on the word,
you're able to see what that MC was actually looking at
for inspiration to do a freestyle.
So, what exactly do I mean?
When I go ahead and tap on the mic icon,
I could go ahead and tap on the beat that I want,
I have 13 preselected beats that I could go into,
and then right here it's just loading the themes.
So the NBA playoffs are going on right now.
Let's go ahead and rap about the NBA playoffs.
So the beat will start to play, as you hear it.
This is a free app while I'm at it.
And also to hear the best quality it does require headphones,
with the mic attached to it.
So while you're in this mode,
you can actually go in and tap on a word like "Houston"
and the rhyming words will populate below it.
And all the pictures will start to turn into things that relate to Houston.
So for example, let's go into,
last night was a fun night,
and I had to look at the big light,
of the Las Vegas street sign
and I'm in a big line.
So that would be an example of how to freestyle rap.
The beauty of Rhymeo is,
if you're intimidated, you have nothing to be scared about.
Because you get 30 seconds
to really showcase your ability to do this.
If you wanna cut it short,
wait about 10 seconds and once you're ready,
go ahead and tap that icon right in the middle.
And now you get the ability to crop the part of the freestyle
that you like the most,
that you're willing to share.
You could also lower down the beat 
so you could hear your vocals more.
Or you could higher the beat
and then go ahead and lower the vocals.
So it's more beat.
So next, you tap on next.
You could title your freestyle.
So we'll do this is "Rhymeo".
Type it as "Rhymeo".
We have a hashtag functionality in this app as well.
Which are the punchlines of a freestyle.
So what exactly is a punch line?
It's a part of the freestyle
that everybody gets the most excited about.
So I said "I went out in Las Vegas last night
and then I looked up and I saw a big light."
So "light" would be the example of the punch line.
So I'm gonna go ahead and hashtag "light".
Just like that.
So now when I'm ready I could tap on the top right corner,
and that icon indicates that I can share this 
in many different ways.
Right now on Facebook we're still pending
but it will be available soon.
So once you tap on that you could go ahead 
and message that to anybody through an email,
through an SMS, 
or you could go ahead and save it to your phone
for your personal social media outlets.
When you're ready to share it, go ahead and tap "share".
It says "Rhymeo will be ready soon."
Wait about 10 to 15 seconds.
And the freestyle will appear on the feed.
And that is Rhymeo.
So I encourage all of you to please go ahead and download it.
It's a free app in the app store.
Go to www.rhymeo.co 
Check us out.
As well as go to our Twitter page. 
Which is @therhymeo
and our Instagram is official_rhymeo
So again my name is Josh 
and I encourage all of you to please go ahead 
and learn how to freestyle rap
and learn how to use this new fundamental of hip hop. 
All right. Thanks I a lot I appreciate it.
Thank you so much man.
Cool.

All right. Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
My name is John Yi.
I'm one of the 5 founding partners of Code & Canvas.
All right and tell me about Code & Canvas.
Sure. Yeah.
It's a project in space that happened somewhat organically.
About a year and a half ago
we became aware of warehouse space here in San Francisco
that was historically dedicated to having artists work in their studios,
but unfortunately due to the rising costs of everything
here in San Francisco,
recently the owner needed to decrease the rent to some degree,
and the artists need an organizing group
to help them be able to stay here,
physically, sustainably, for some period of time,
at which point we came in,
invested some money,
increased the usability of the space
and created a long term business.
and created a long term business.
Great.
So what was the place like before you got involved?
It was pretty raw.
Yeah, the paint and the nice flooring that you see here for instance,
is new, a relatively new experience.
It was originally a paint factory.
It had been a paint factory for I think almost 100 years.
You know, so turn of the century San Francisco.
And most recently used for storage and you know, art studios.
But wasn't nearly as nice as the space used now.
We're still working on it but it's much better.
What made you want to get involved in this?
Sure. Yeah. So it's twofold.
One. I'm a fairly long term resident of San Francisco,
who moved here when I was young and 
new to the tech scene.
And I think very lucky over the past several years,
to have worked at some companies,
where now I have the ability to invest.
And not only can I make money,
but I also can help the community.
And so this is a space dedicated to local artisans
and artists and startups
that can be affordable for them to live and work here.
On top of that, you know, we designed it 
as a for-profit company
where partners can put in some amount of money
and over a period of time we'll make our money back
with a small return.
We feel strongly that the non-profit sort of sector
is beautiful in many ways but oftentimes
beholden to ask for money 
over and over and over again
and not necessarily great historically 
at having a physically sustainable model.
So we believe strongly that good, sound,
business principles and community, 
positive things for the community,
can come together.
Do you consider yourself an incubator?
Not technically.
Incubators as I understand it, generally,
as the word sort of connotes,
takes in companies and germinates them 
and grows them basically from scratch into something.
Oftentimes investing in those companies and getting equity stake.
That's not necessarily the case here.
Ours is more of a coworking, more of a real estate model
where we're subletting or sublicensing some space
to companies that we believe in.
Not only that are local
and generally people that are working with their hands
and making something,
but also having tie-in to technology in a complementary way.
So, anyways, yeah.
So you would consider yourself in the real estate industry then, or...?
Yeah it's funny. 
I mean that's our main sort of business model, so to speak,
is money that's coming in. 
Our cashflow is generally around licensing space. 
Which is I suppose at the most fundamental level is real estate.
But we're doing it in a way that we feel is,
kind of curated and builds community
versus simply just renting to anyone who can pay for it.
How do startups get involved here?
Do they have to apply? Is there a process?
Yeah there is an application process.
We have a website, codeandcanvas.org.
Code and Canvas, the name actually,
you know, as you may, sort of figured out,
kind of connotes the art, 
or the engineering and the art kind of coming together.
Tech and artisanship.
But on the site there is a way to apply if you hear about us.
A lot of the exisiting companies in this space 
have come to us through word of mouth.
So it's one or two degrees of separation 
from someone who's already been here.
What are some of the companies like that are here right now?
Sure. There's quite a variety.
Like I say, the kind of the thread, so to speak,
that ties together many of these companies is that,
generally speak they're local companies that are startups,
generally smaller, fledgling companies that are just getting started.
But also that they are doing something creative.
You know, so they're all creative professionals in some fashion.
In some cases it's sort of what we call old school
or traditional technology, where, you know,
people are doing print presses, posters, t-shirts, 
those sorts of things. 
Very traditional artisanship.
In some cases it's very high tech,
where people are doing, you know, sort of
computerated fashion design
and kind of everything in between.
But in some form of fashion it's people who are creative professionals.
So, so far we've talked about art, design, tech, and real estate.
Did you study any of these in your educational background 
or what did you study?
Yeah. Not directly.
I studied mechanical engineering and international relations.
I suppose I can create some interesting, you know, dotted lines
to how it came to be that I'm working in this space now from that.
A lot of problem solving. A lot of interpersonal, 
a lot of intercultural kind of investigation that I think
applied indirectly to what we're doing.
But I didn't, you know, specifically study any of those topics.
How did you get interested as far as...
you know, where did the passion come from? 
Yeah. I think it's in large degree about mutual benefit.
I think at its core business is about offering something.
It's about supplying and demand.
It's creating something,
whether it be a tangible product 
or service that someone else needs or wants.
And if the business is constructed properly 
both parties actually get something valuable
out of the exchange.
And that could be conceived as sort of a win-win situation
so to speak.
Where both parties get something valuable out of it the exchange
and want  to continue to do business.
I feel at its core that's really what's exciting to me.
Which is finding things that work well together
that someone else may not have found.
Or may not have, as we say, connected the dots around.
So what's compelling about this for me is 
it's bringing together, especially recently,
in sort of the Bay Area, 
there's a lot of perceived strife 
between camps of art and technology
or culture and technology,
hi-tech and low-tech.
Where I think honestly there's a lot more similarity 
and a lot more potential collaboration 
and mutual benefit than we realize.
Had you always wanted to be an entrepreneur from an early age?
Yeah. I think the answer is yes. 
I recall...
Well, one, I had my first business so to speak,
I got a permit to paint address numbers on sidewalks 
for people around town when I was in 5th grade.
So we spent a summer doing that and made,
I think about $500 on our $10 investment of paint.
And I kind of caught the entrepreneurial bug,
realizing that, again similar to what we've been talking about
with mutual benefit,
that I had time, I had energy, I had the skills to paint these things,
and people were willing to pay me,
you know, a reasonable amount of money.
They were happy. I was happy. 
And that idea of that win-win situation was really compelling.
I remember when I really caught the,
sort of the business bug, was in 8th grade.
We were on a class trip to the California capitol of Sacramento
and I recall one evening 
where the teacher hadn't planned a formal dinner
and said we can figure it out on our own.
And so I, sort of proposed to my classmates,
that we order some pizza and they were happy with that.
And I calculated how much everyone would need to pitch in.
They all gave me the cash and as I remember,
I called the pizza place and an idea kind of came to me,
which was I'm gonna order a lot of pizza here, 
can you give me a sort of group discount? 
And he did.
So all said and done, I had paid for the pizza,
everyone's happy, 
everyone's thanking me for having, you know, arranged it.
And I had about $50 left over. 
And I went to my teacher and said 
Hey I have $50 left over. What do I do?
And he said "Well that's yours. That's your profit"
so to speak, for having arranged things.
And I remember just being surprised and sort of delighted
of the fact that everyone's happy and I've made money out of this.
And so I just had this idea that, you know, 
there's probably, you know, dozens or hundreds 
or thousands of opportunites like that where there's a need
that I can fill and you know, 
make a resonable amount of money to do it.
So I've been doing that for the last better part of 20 years.
Wow. 
Well is there anything else you'd like to add about Code and Canvas?
Sure. So we've talked about it a little bit already.
But I think that there are not enough people who have some financial means
who are willing to, to put money into a project, 
that not only can make them money with a reasonable return,
but also provide a real service to the community.
There are lots of companies certainly who are out to make lots of money.
And there's nothing wrong with that necessarily.
But I think there's a ton of opportunites 
sort of in between the philanthropic or traditionally non-profit
sort of sector of things 
and the high-profit sort of privatized professional stuff.
In the middle where there's really a hybrid 
between the ability to make a sustainable amount of money
to make a business go, 
and also do something that is very, very positive
in to some degree intangible ways.
But very important over the long term.
Now you've been living in the Silicon Valley for a while
and you're kind of in the startup scene now,
but were you involved in any startups before 
or any other companies in this industry?
Sure. Yeah. 
I had a couple of startups of my own, which are still...
one of them is still going.
The others sort of folded in about 2008.
In the hardware technology 
and software technology spaces respectively.
And then I worked at a few notable local companies.
Facebook is one, I spent a lot of time. 
Pinterest. 
And most recently I have joined a company in the Bitcoin space,
called Coinbase.
So I've remained in high-tech as I've done projects like this as well.
What were you doing at Facebook and Pinterest?
The work that I've done at all 3 companies most recently
is fairly similar, which is reaching out to software developers 
and asking them or figuring out ways in which they can build software
that connects with the platform that I'm at.
So like Facebook it was reaching out to developers 
who can build value-added software that links in to Facebook 
and works with the Facebook platform.
Same thing at Pinterest 
and same thing now at a company called Coinbase,
which is much smaller.
All right. Well thanks a lot for your interview and good luck.
Sure. Thank you very much.
All right.

All right. Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Hello, my name is Tudor Cobelas,
and I'm the co-founder of SafeDrive App,
which is an app that rewards drivers 
for not texting while driving.
Very interesting. How did you come into this type of product?
Within almost car crash.
I almost crashed my car doing texting while driving, 
and since then I was trying to find out a solution for that, 
and somehow we managed to get in contact 
with the other co-founder 
which already had the solution of rewarding drivers through an app
that monitors their activity when they're driving.
Could you tell me, how does the app work, 
and what kind of technology do you use?
So, the app is available on iOS and Android; 
we're using native development code. 
From the GPS sensor, we know what speed the driver has, 
and once there is a speed of more than 6 miles per hour, 
our app gives points based on an algorithm
that takes into account the speed, the distance traveled,
and the time spent behind the wheel. 
And, as the drivers drive more, they're earning more points. 
And those points are able to convert into discounts
that we have from agreed partners.
Tell me about your location. 
Where are you based, and who are most of your clients?
Great. Our headquarters is in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 
and the development team is in Romania, Bucharest. 
We have launched the app in Romania 
as a first country to test and to see how the users react. 
And since then, we moved to the Netherlands, 
and right now we are soon to be launched here in the US as well.
What kind of traction do you have?
How are you marketing and getting more customers?
The traction is interesting, 
from 10,000 downloads that we have reached, in a few months, 
we were able to have around 3,000 active users on a monthly basis. 
The marketing part is covered by our partners, 
because it's an app that helps them to empower their CSR strategy. 
That means that they're happy to share in their customer base
the message about SafeDrive App.
So until now, we have grown organically
based on the efforts of our partners.
Are you using any kind of social media as well?
Yes. We are using the social media 
because we want to help our users
to share their good behavior online, 
either with their friends,
in the app they are able to create friendships,
or on social platforms like Facebook and Twitter.
What was your position again?
I'm the CEO of SafeDrive.
How many co-founders do you have, and how big is your team?
So, the team is, we have a dedicated mobile team of four people,
two on iOS, two on Android,
a part-time UX designer, 
and the co-founding team is myself with another co-founder, 
which is present here as well today.
So where are most of your users coming from?
Most of our users are coming from western Europe
and Romania currently, 
but we have a strong user base that is growing in the US, 
and right now we are busy on creating a certain vibe 
and a certain awareness about our app within the US drivers
What's your business model?
The business model is quite simple
because our partners are coming up 
with products with discounts so nothing is for free. 
We are creating sales opportunities for them, 
so for each sale that we generate for our partners, 
we get a sales commission. 
Next to that, we are looking into models 
where we would be able to monetize it from selling the data
to insurance companies or retailers
in order to attract a certain type of responsible users 
that we are able to provide.
Tell me, how did you get,
I know you said you were almost involved in a car accident,
but what other experiences did you have before,
prior to this company, that helped you to launch this?
So, I'm the co-founder of 
an international software development company with three offices, 
two in the Netherlands and one in Romania. 
We have grew the company since 2012 when we founded
to up to more than 50 team members, 
and that brought us the possibility to learn from the projects
that we have developed for our clients, 
so what we're doing eventually is 
we're helping other companies to innovate for software. 
And the resources that we generate from that
we're investing in our own products, SafeDrive being one of them.
Do you have any competitors, and how would you compare?
Of course we have competitors.
The most clear ones are the hardware devices, 
like Bluetooth headsets or car keys that the cars are coming with, 
but they're still only related to voice tasks. 
What happens with the smartphone is that the user has to interact
by touching and also checking their screen. 
We have competitors that take a different angle 
by restricting the user from using the smartphone while driving, 
and we're taking a different approach 
by rewarding them for not doing a certain thing. 
So I can say that, directly, we don't have a competitor. 
Indirectly, we have competitors 
that are tackling the texting while driving problem 
from different perspectives.
Was it difficult to become an entrepreneur 
and start your own business?
It's always difficult. On a daily basis, 
you have to struggle with a lot of tasks 
not only related to your product, 
but related to the dynamics of an organization, 
and you have to keep up high the spirit of the team 
in order for them to innovate in order for them to be productive. 
And it's something that is occupying 
about 60 or 70 percent on my daily task list. 
So yeah, it's not something that is easy, 
but it's not something impossible. 
And the energy that you're getting from seeing
that your product is validated or seeing
that your project is performing at the expected KPIs
that your clients are imposing. 
It pushes you to continue to develop further.
Do you see any changes in the future of this industry,
or what do you see coming?
We're seeing an interesting constraint at the moment 
in actually having resources available to act on 
and to work on the projects that our clients have 
or our company has by itself, 
and we hope that this will be solved soon 
by having more developers or more technical people available 
on the market in order to, let's say, 
decongest the problem that we have right now. 
Opportunities are everywhere because, in the end, we are,
In the present, there are certain behaviors 
that the users have with that technology, 
and there is always a need of optimizing them and improving them, 
so definitely new ways will appear in order how to communicate, 
to interact, to socialize and so forth.
Is there anything else you'd like to mention about SafeDrive?
Our app is available worldwide.
Anyone can download it for free.
They can be responsible starting from now.
You can check our website, getsafedrive.com,
or if you're looking in the App Store or Play Store,
look for SafeDrive App. 
Thank you.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.

All right, hi.
Can you introduce yourself?
Yes, hi.
My name is Assaf Shalvi.
I'm the CEO and Founder of Swift Shift.
All right.
Tell me about Swift Shift.
Swift Shift is a mobile application
for a large companies
in retail and hospitality and healthcare-
care homes, supermarkets,
and so forth, 
connects all the employees,
in an app,
to pick up more shifts.
So managers, 
if they need somebody extra,
can post a shift,
and then employees on the other side
can pick up these shifts,
whether it's in their own store
or anywhere in the region they want to work in.
Okay.
And do you have any competitors?
At the moment,
Swift Shift is the only mobile solution for a large enterprise.
There are other solutions for smaller businesses,
but we allow any managers in a large business-
Starbucks and so forth,
to have at their fingertips,
all their employees available to pick up a shift.
You said it was the only one for large enterprises so,
what does it do differently
that makes it available to large enterprises,
instead of just small companies?
Large enterprises put a lot of people
on a part-time basis.
So, they give them 5-, 10-, 15 hours a week.
But they have a lot of employees that work on
Christmas- you know, other events,
that could be available to fill up shifts.
And, the managers in these businesses,
usually only have visibility
into their own team.
Swift Shift allows the enterprise
to have a marketplace for shifts.
So the employees can control their earnings,
can get feedback from different managers,
and promote within the organization.
It really creates an ecosystem where,
employees can pick up shifts in different places,
and get a career,
and progress within the organization.
Where are you based?
And then tell me about your team as well.
We started the business in London.
We now have clients in the UK,
and in the US,
and we're opening up an office in the US
in the next year,
and that's it.
Great.
Where are you originally from,
and what is your background-
educational background,
and how did you start this company?
I'm originally from Israel,
and I grew up in Israel and
I was working for a large outsourcing company,
an American company,
and I had this problem first hand.
I had a lot of people I had to manage,
across multiple locations,
every day, you know,
5-10% of the shifts were not filled,
and my managers would spend,
an hour, an hour and a half on the phone,
trying to call people to pick up these shifts,
and I thought,
"That's such a waste of time."
At the same time,
there were so many people
in my company that
like to work more and were, you know,
complaining of not having enough hours to work,
and I was thinking,
"This is a problem that must be solved."
And today when everyone has a mobile phone,
at least a smartphone, in most cases,
it's easy to solve.
And that's what we're doing.
So why are you based in the UK?
What made you choose that?
I was moved to the UK
by the American company I was working for and
that's why we started Swift Shift in the UK
But the UK and the US have something in common,
which is,
a growing number of flexible employees.
Companies today,
like to employ people on a flexible contract,
part-time basis.
Intuit just released a prediction that,
by 2020, 40% of the US workforce
will be employed as contingent workers.
Meaning, 
employed as needed,
with a different number of hours each week.
Swift Shift was really catered
to manage this kind of flexible workforce,
where people work 3 shifts this week,
5 shifts the next week,
need to have multiple jobs,
and need to proactively
find the next shift 
for them to make their monthly earnings.
Great.
So how big is your team right now?
We're now a team of 10 people.
We are growing with our customers,
and that's pretty much-
small team, but growing quickly.
All right.
Where else would you like to expand in the future?
I think that, 
the US is a natural opportunity for us.
It's a big market with one language,
I think Asia is also- China, 
is a big market with huge opportunity,
large hospitality,
groups, large hotels, 
and a lot of employees that face
the same challenges,
and businesses that face the same challenges
as in other countries.
Obviously,
I think any business today
that is not trying to take a position in China
is losing out,
because it's once in a generation,
definitely a opportunity to be part of that amazing growth.
All right, well thank you for your time!
Thank you.

Hi. How are you doing today?
Pretty good, how are you?
I'm pretty good as well.
Thank you for coming.
Absolutely. Love to help.
Great. So, could you introduce yourself?
Sure. My name is Nick.
I'm the CEO of Swizzle.
We're a South Korean company.
I'm the only American in the whole company,
but we are South Korean.
Awesome. And can you tell me a little bit about Swizzle?
Yeah. We are a video platform
that allows you to choose clips from multiple videos online,
put those clips together,
and then package it with like a description,
send it out to anybody.
What people will see when they get it 
is they'll watch clip after clip continuously, 
except each clip still plays from its original source.
So it lets you do fun things like skip, shuffle, and all that kind of stuff
but, more importantly, if you see a clip that you like,
you can watch the entire video of where that clip came from,
like, comment, subscribe, do what you need to do, 
pop right back and continue watching clips.
It's a better way to send batches of videos.
Great. Very handy. How did you come up with the idea for Swizzle?
Actually, we had a earlier application.
It was based on music videos.
It was doing pretty good, got a decent amount of following,
kept it in beta, but what happened was 
when I came on board, it was about 8, 9 months ago,
I started interviewing a bunch of our users,
and I found that there was this disconnect in video.
People were not really watching full videos. 
They were kind of skipping around.
They wanted us to allow them to pick certain parts of it
and when we talked to content creators, 
they were having a problem in that they were getting a lot of views,
but not full views,
and so we came up with this as a solution
to kind of bring those two halves together.
Cool. So, you mentioned music videos.
Do you primarily work with music videos,
or does the content span different genres?
It's any video.
Right now, it's any video on YouTube.
Eventually, we're hoping to expand it
to basically any video that is online.
So, it just started with music videos
because that was our niche before,
and we've opened it up since then.
Cool. So, your program, you're working with content creators. 
So is this targeted to people with experience? 
Or can anyone off the street easily use this product?
Anybody can use it.
We're targeting content creators
that have multiple videos or work with multiple videos,
so that would be people with experience,
but the final product, anybody can use, 
and we made sure that we made it simple 
so that anybody can use it. 
We actually just had somebody in there the other day 
that was a complete technological idiot, basically. 
He just didn't, you know, he's older, document generation, 
just got a brand-new phone. 
The phone wasn't even updated, didn't even have like, 
completely unlocked and everything, it was bad,
but we put it in his hands to see, to make sure that he could do it.
Because if him and my grandmother and all,
if they can do it, then anybody else will be able to,
and that's important.
Right. So the potential is huge.
Right.
So, where do you see the future of this kind of product
and the company going?
Well, it depends. I have a lot of dreams and hopes, obviously.
But one thing that I've learned is to, you know,
don't count your eggs before they hatch kind of thing.
I like to look at the data and see what people will do with it
and then take it to different places.
In a perfect world, I'd love it 
if it was the application that like everybody used 
to kind of mash up bunches of videos and send it out.
But, if I go after that kind of market,
it's too broad, and I won't actually achieve it. So,
we'll kind of see where things take me.
Taking it little by little.
Yeah.
Great. So, do you have any competitors right now?
Nobody does what we do.
And I'd say it's an interesting space because, 
while we don't have direct competitors,
we're still eventually going to be competing 
for dollars out of somebody's pocket.
And those dollars could go towards other things.
Since we're kind of in the promotional side of things,
that's money that could be spent towards other types of advertising.
We are trying to keep the costs low,
about 4 bucks a month,
so in that range, there's not a lot of promotional things 
that you can do to make your videos better for 4 bucks a month.
We might be competing 
with a different video editors or some of that kind of stuff. 
But no direct competition, so.
Awesome. So 4 dollars a month.
Can you elaborate a little bit on your business model?
Yeah. What we're doing is we're launching it Thursday,
actually next week. For that, it'll be invite-only.
If you have an invite, you can just make video cocktails,
have fun with it.
After a few months,
after we've worked out some kinks,
we're going to launch out the freemium model,
and what will happen is,
anybody can make as many video cocktails as you want,
but each cocktail will expire one week after being created.
Unless you're paying for it.
You can either pay 4 bucks a month, 
or you pay 4 bucks for one cocktail and keep it going.
The point of this is that regular users that we've talked to
tend to not really care what a cocktail would do after a week,
because they're just using it to share 
like a bunch of videos with their friends at the time,
whereas content creation will want it to really, you know
promote their videos, and need it to last longer than a week.
So it would be incentive for them to pay without harming 
end-users that can make things go viral.
All right, cool. Is there any experience that you have
that brought you into the business world?
Have you always been a business kind of guy?
Or is this new for you?
I've told people 
that I've been an entrepreneur for my entire working career. 
When I was 16 or 17, my buddy had a web design company, 
and it was actually called "Project 195 - BetaWolf," 
because he was selling websites for 195 bucks.
He was a typical kind of nerdy guy.
He wasn't really good with people.
Really good at what he did.
I was great with people, and I knew nothing about computers.
So we teamed up and ended up selling at least, you know,
started selling websites for like 3, 4 grand.
and that was my first jump into business,
since then I've ran vet clinics,
I've done real estate,
I've done business development firms,
and a ton of marketing stuff and everything in between.
Wow. It's always been in your blood.
Yeah, yeah, pretty much.
I've always had that kind of itch to do things,
and I hate working for other people,
so that kind of helps. I'm a terrible employee.
That's common among CEOs.
So is there anything else that's special about your product,
or anything else you'd like to mention?
We've been working on this really hard.
I'm really proud of my team.
We got ten people in there. They're all from Korea.
We have amazing developers, six of them are developers,
and the rest of the guys are helping with business 
and also kind of management to get everything together.
If my team is watching this, I'm super proud of them.
I'm in awe every time I come to the office,
because they always have something new for me,
which is very rare in the development world.
It takes a long time, so,
I like my team.
Great. That's very important.
And is there any advice you can give anyone
who wants to test out their entrepreneurial spirit?
Be very careful who you do business with.
The businesses that I've had that have failed,
it has always been because me and the other people 
who were running it did not see eye-to-eye.
You know, I don't have terrible relationships or anything with them,
but if you want to take the business in one direction
and they want to keep it small,
you're going to have a problem.
Sometimes, too, you work with people that,
it's more of a game. You take things seriously,
and it's very upsetting when you find
that they go back to their old ways
and crash the business again.
So make sure that you and your other founders
are always on the same page,
and both working just as hard.
Great. That's good advice.
Well, thank you. I appreciate your time,
and I can't wait to see Swizzle.
Yeah, me neither.
Best of luck.
Thanks.

All right. Hi. Can you introduce yourself?
Sure. My name is Alex from tinggly.com
We're the first and only global gift experience provider.
So we're offering experiences in over 300... sorry.
350 gifts in over 80 countries.
Everything from extreme, so you know, bungee jumps,
ziplining, diving with sharks.
To spa, gourmet.
Here in Vegas, like a helicopter ride as well.
So a whole range of activities and experiences.
What made you want to do this?
What made us do this?
I mean we've always been passionate about activites.
So we started off doing all kinds of things,
from like flying fighter jets, to paintball, go karting,
and then we thought this is fantastic.
Why don't we take this a step further
and actually offer these things as gifts?
And we know now that actually gifting experiences 
and emotions,
is much more fullfilling and rewarding
than giving material stuff.
So our philosophy
is all about reducing the amount of stuff we have in our lives
and much more promoting experiences and activities.
Is there anyone else who does something similar to you?
In domestic markets, yes. 
There are companies all around the world doing that.
But we are actually the first ones that are doing this globally. 
So we also have the business in 8 domestic markets, 
but tinggly.com is our first international brand. 
And what else do you do differently than your competitors?
I mean first of all it's the geographical scope.
And then it's also the range of products,
the quality of the products that you get. 
So the experiences in the different countries,
we're out there, checking them out, 
seeing what's good, what's the best thing we can do.
And then we're bringing that to the market. 
And offering that as a gifting solution.
Great. Do you see the future of this industry growing?
Or changing in the future?
For sure. 
I mean it's definitely changing,
in that it's migrating more to mobile.
So mobile search is becoming much more interesting as well.
For consumers. 
So you know we're responding to that.
And I think that again with people wanting to be
sort of less materialistic, 
there's the opportunity for us to grow,
and giving experiences is definitely high on the agenda.
Tell me about your background and how you got involved personally.
Well, my background.
I worked for a nonprofit for 10 years.
I worked in politics for a short while as well in Europe.
And in business we've been doing everything from consulting,
promoting small businesses for over 10 years as well.
Also in banking. I worked in banking for a while.
And we really just have an entrepreneurial streak.
Me and my partner Linus we're always looking for new things to do.
And making people happy through gifting is a fantastic way to live.
We arrived in San Francisco on Friday.
And since then we've been traveling up through Yosemite Park,
we've been mountain biking, we've been skiing,
checking out lots of different experiences on the way,
and here we are in Vegas.
So it's very cool.
Awesome. What else would you like to add?
What else would I like to add?
I think it's Mother's Day this Sunday in the U.S.,
if I understand correctly, 
so if people are thinking about a Mother's Day gift,
if they've got a mother who's a traveler, 
who likes adventure abroad,
a Tinggly gift could be a great gift for them to use on their next trip.
Yeah. So tinggly.com. Check it out.
All right. Alex, thanks a lot. I appreciate it. 
Thank you. 

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yeah, hi Jonathan. My name is Mohammad.
I represent Trending5000
the trendiest network of small businesses and startups
across the Middle East and North African region.
Great. Tell me a little bit more about Trending5000.
OK. Trending5000 is a hub for small business and startup of the region.
We connect them with the relevant stakeholders
in terms of investors
trendsetters
as well as partners and customers.
We are making the connections
so if a small business or startup
sign up with us
they will be
they would be actually 
connected to all of their stakeholders and [sad].
So it's a one-stop shop for small business and startup.
Great. We talked to your wife earlier.
"- Yes
- Okay, and what else did you"
would you like to talk about that?
Yeah
well
one of the things
one of the services that actually we provide
that we don't see other competition provide
is the get-it-done service.
It's basically where consumers will
will actually 
post their requirements in real-time
saying that we would require for example a painter
or would require somebody to help us
with anything around the house.
And a service provider
who is registered with us
on Trending5000
would get a notification that
somebody's looking for your service
And then we hook these people up.
And that's how actually we help consumers
find the right partner, and
for the businesses
we help them get leads.
Now let me ask you something a little different
since your wife is your co-founder
how is it like you know working together as a couple
I mean that's not as common maybe
so how is that?
Yeah, it's not, we're keeping it in the family.
So, we tried to segregate
between family and business
and it's very tough, because...
So we see each other at home
as well as in the business
so the most important thing is
to have an understanding from both sides that
business is business
and that family issues shouldn't actually overshadow
the business aspect.
So she won't fire you, probably, yeah, right?
Yeah, probably not.
So, do you have any other team members
or do you hope to expand, and...?
Yes. Right now, actually, only the two of us
and we have some help
like part-timer help.
But yeah, in the very near future
we're thinking of actually
having our own team and expanding
with a technology team and a sales team.
So, yeah.
All right.
What else would you like to talk about?
Something about All Things Trending?
Yeah, All Things Trending is also a section
where we feature
trending stuff across the region.
It could be trending apps
trending websites, trending entrepreneur
somebody with a cool idea
with an idea that is
that we haven't heard before
So we usually feature that for free
and we give our reader
something new, something to chew on
and that's something that actually we
we're very fond of
All right, sounds great.
Well, congratulations and 
"- good luck for the moment.
- All right, thank you John."

All right, could you introduce yourself?
Hey there. 
My name is Justin Zhen. I'm a co-founder at Thinknum.
All right, tell me about Thinknum and what you do here.
Thinknum is a web platform.
We provide data community and insights for financial analysts.
Right now, if you're an investor,
you have a process of value and securities.
In a networked world, using the web,
that process will look completely different for a couple of reasons.
The first is data. Data can now come from anywhere.
In addition to traditional financial data, 
there's a lot of unique alternative data on the web,
and a big part of what we do is 
index this data, put it on our platform.
A second resource the web provides is computing power.
So if you wanted to analyze a data set of 100,000 rows,
it's tough to do that in Excel
because you're limited by your PC's resources.
On the web, you can scale up servers
and run that in a matter of seconds if you wanted to.
And the third reason is people.
So how do you get access to the insights of others,
whether it's someone you work with,
whether it's someone sitting on the other side of the world.
So the web is just a much more efficient way 
for that collaboration to happen.
And that's what we do. We provide data, computing power, people.
We put it together in one easy-to-use platform,
and you can go in and analyze companies using our technology.
Great. So how do you compare to, let's say, 
other companies doing the same thing?
So that's the thing; My background is I used to work at a hedge fund.
My partner used to work at Goldman,
and the reason why we were initially drawn to the problem 
was because there was no other alternatives.
We spent a lot of time getting financial data,
we spent a lot of time in Excel building models, emailing models out,
saving it on a shared drive, but that process was really inefficient,
and, essentially, the reason why we quit our jobs to start Thinknum
is we want to solve our own pain points.
So there's really, currently, no one that's doing what we're doing.
In this industry, in the FinTech industry, 
what can you tell me about that?
So, FinTech is really exciting right now.
I think that every industry is getting revolutionized by technology,
Obviously, finance is a really important industry.
I think it's one of the most important problems
any society has to solve is how to allocate resources efficiently
and FinTech, obviously there's challenges with regulations,
you know, there's a traditional way of doing things.
People have been doing it the same way for a long time, 
But there's just so much help out there,
and so much of it on the web,
that's essentially what we're doing, 
is providing modern-day technology and really all these resources, 
and applying that to finance.
What benefits do the FinTech companies have 
over traditional finance companies?
Sure, so, the major benefit is, it's a huge industry
that, traditionally, has not seen a lot of disruption.
There hasn't been innovation in the industry in decades.
So there's a huge resource that the web 
and any other company that we can leverage, 
you know, the web and bring its advantages to industry.
We think that will completely change the way 
that people buy securities.
Tell me about your past experience, your educational experience
and previous work experience and how that led you 
to create this company.
Sure, so, I studied financial engineering at Princeton.
That's where I met my co-founder.
After graduation, I went to work at a hedge fund.
She went to work at Goldman-Sachs, and essentially,
like I said, we both saw the pain point 
that analysts currently have to go through
in running financial analysis.
So that's what led us to quit our jobs and start Thinknum.
From a young age, did you want to be an entrepreneur?
What led you to do that?
Yeah, so, I've always wanted to be an entrepreneur.
I actually started my very first business in fifth grade.
I saw a problem where students in my class 
were constantly forgetting to bring pencils and pens,
so I would buy a stack of it and I would rent that out for each class.
I think I charged like a nickel or ten cents each time.
Unfortunately, at the time, 
I wasn't too good with keeping up an accounting system, 
so I would lose all my pencils and pens.
So that business didn't do so well, but since a young age, 
I've always wanted to start my own business.
Great. What about your clients? 
What kind of clients do you target, and what's your traction?
Sure. So, we currently have 5,000 analysts on the platform.
The way our business model works is the platform is completely free
if all your models and your work is public, or for those 
who want to keep it private, 
or share their work in a controlled environment,
so professional analysts, 
we currently charge $200 per user per month.
Our clients are mostly hedge funds,
as well as some investment banks,
and yeah, it's professional analysts who want to utilize the platform
but also keep their work proprietary.
So those are our clients.
Why did you choose to start your business in this area, 
in Manhattan? What's the benefits of being here?
Sure, so, in our case, you know, 
New York is obviously the finance capital of the world. 
All our clients are within a couple blocks away, 
so with just being able to directly talk to them, 
be able to access them, that was the main reason.
And the second reason is I'm from the area, and there's no other
city that just has as many different types of people packed in.
I can literally walk outside and see people from all over the world,
from all different industries, and it's just a very special place.
How do you advertise?
Essentially, I worked in a hedge fund
and my partner worked at Goldman-Sachs.
We traded with hundreds of hedge funds,
so we have a good network for each of us to reach out to.
Do you use social media or anything like that?
We haven't. We haven't used any paid marketing.
Our traction has been kind of just word of mouth,
of people. They really like what we're doing, 
and they find it valuable, and they end up spreading the word
amongst their friends as well as their colleagues.
It's grown organically from there.
Tell me about your team and what kind of company culture 
you want to have for your company.
Sure. So, our team is mostly developers right now 
because there's just a lot of data that we're indexing.
There are many features that we want to put on the platform.
In terms of the culture, my co-founder and I really believe
in a flat culture, so we all can easily access other team members,
and you're really valued by the work that you do,
not by what your title is.
And that's worked really well for most tech companies,
and that's the culture that we want.
What can you tell us about the difference
in the business culture in New York versus any other city?
Is it different?
Sure, so New York is more formal.
So we spent last summer in Silicon Valley.
We participated in an accelerated corp founding startups.
So it was really interesting to see the differences in culture there,
New York is very formal, Silicon Valley is more laid-back.
But, you know, New York is just...
that's where people have seen a lot of success here.
Just because of who you can access, 
there's just so many people.
The amount of talent here is incredible.
I've never been surrounded by so many people
with so many different skills in such a small area.
There's no other city like it.
What other kind of message would you like to talk about?
I'd love for you guys to check out Thinknum.
It's free if you choose to keep your models public.
We've indexed thousands of data sources into one platform.
Just check it out! 
Thinknum.com. 
Play around a bit. We'd love to hear your feedback as well. 
Let me know what you guys think.
All right. Thanks a lot, I appreciate it.
Thank you.

So can you introduce yourself?
Sure my name is Ken Goldman.
And I live in Long Island City, New York.
Okay, Ken. Nice to meet you. 
Nice to meet you.
And can you tell me about some of your jobs?
What's your work experience? 
Well, I was a businessman for many years. 
I had a research company and I sold it and retired,
and I had a lot of energy and I need something to do,
so I've done a number of different things. 
One of them is driving a car. I'm an Uber driver. 
I drive for Uber in New York City,
and I've been doing that for about a year and a half. 
And I'm also a part-time actor.
Mostly background acting work in TV and films.
Awesome. 
So what advantages do you think living in New York City has
for your line of work?
Well, I mean there's so much going on in New York.
There's always a lot of activity and a lot of jobs.
And you can just pick your industry or wherever you interest lies,
there's so much going on that you'll find it in New York.
If there's work going on someplace,
pretty sure you can probably find 
what you're looking for in New York City.
Awesome. For sure .
And you said you did some research,
do you have an educational background
that prepared you for that line of work?
I did. My college degree is in Marketing.
And I went to graduate school also in Marketing. 
So, degrees in Marketing,
and my business before I retired was a research agency, 
did market research work. 
Very cool. And what kind of areas 
of market research did you work in?
Well I did a lot of survey work and statistics 
and focus group interviews.
And it spanned many, many industries. 
Things from consumer packaged goods to high tech products,
healthcare, sometimes testing things for the government,
to get health products accepted in the U.S.,
and automotive products, 
just about every industry over the years I did research in.
Great, great. And have you always worked based in New York
or have you travelled for work?
I've lived, been based out of New York. 
I have done travel associated with some of my stints, 
sometimes living up to 6 months in another city 
because of work requirements,
but generally I'm in New York 
and I travel depending where the work sends me. 
But I'm based out of New York.
Great. 
And when you're working as an Uber driver,
can you explain a little about your day-to-day,
kind of life as a driver?
Well Uber is a pretty different and exceptional kind of job
because there's no boss
and there's no people telling you where you have to be
and when you have to be there.
There's no set schedule.
You do it to your own liking.
And so it's the most flexible job you can have.
And it's all, the whole business is based on an app for smartphones.
All drivers have an iphone, 
because the iphone has a GPS built into it,
that when a passenger on the street wants a car,
they need to order a car,
they just hit the app,
and the Uber system will send a message 
to the closest vehicle to that passenger.
So they dispatch the closest car to the customer.
Interesting.
So, working as an Uber driver, 
you set your own schedule, you're kind of your own boss.
You are your own boss. 
You also act on the side. 
Right.
So would you consider yourself somewhat of an entrepreneur?
Well, I would say so. 
You know, it seems like it's working out that way.
That it would be hard for me to go to work for a company.
I've been on my own for so many years. 
And being an Uber driver you're independent,
you get paid on 1099s,
you're an independent person, you're not part of the company.
Uber doesn't own any cars, 
they own the technology and the own the apps,
so all the drivers are independent operators.
And it suits me just fine. 
Great. 
And do you have any advice 
for anybody that would like to break out into being self employed?
Well, it has to be, you have to be cut out for it. 
In other words you have to be the kind of person that can do it.
Sometimes there's less structure in your life.
You know?
So you have to be comfortable with less structure.
Some people are more comfortable in a more structured situation.
Where they know there's a company, 
when they're gonna get paid, 
and where they have to be,
and everything is spelled out for them. 
So entrepreneuring is a little bit different.
It's wide open,
and you're left to your own volition to how you make things happen,
and where it takes you.
And you have to be able to roll with the punches.
Right.
And do you think there's anything that has specifically prepared you 
for this kind of entrepreneurship or you just have it within you,
and you have for years?
That's a great question.
I'm not sure.
I think, I guess my former,
some of my former work in research 
may have helped prepare me for it,
but it's probably something that I'm cut out to do,
and after a while it's hard for me to work in a structured, 
corporate situation. 
So I find it more to my liking to go for the unstructured situations.
Very good. Well thank you, Ken. 
Oh, my pleasure.
I appreciate it. 
Sure, sure. Anytime.

Alright hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yeah, sure. My name is Nadeem Mughal
founder and CEO of VoxTonePro.com.
We basically are disrupting
how brands advertise themselves
through audio branding and audio ad content.
So we are here to basically connect
with different companies on strategic avenues
and yeah...
Tell me about where you're based
and, you know, what you're doing differently.
We're based out of Toronto, Canada.
And what we're doing differently is
we're allowing end-users to create audio ads and audio
ad content through one simplified order form online.
They can select voiceover people.
They can select background music
and basically create what we call a VoxTonePro.
And then, within 24 hours, whatever they typed in
a professional voiceover person will speak whatever
they spoken. Furthermore, what we're doing is
we're operating like a record company
where we're seeking voiceover talent from all over the world
signing them exclusively
managing them
what we call ANR'ing them
because we have a background within the music industry
so we basically compiled all of those skills
royalty-free music, premium music
and made a pretty disruptive product for the audio ad industry.
Great. What's your background
and what made you want to start this company?
My background is in the music industry
on the publishing side and music production.
You know, I work with companies
such as Universal Music and DefJam and a few others
and we basically wanted to get into the ad industry
but make something very compelling, very different.
So we're connecting with streaming companies like Spotify
right now, and other companies to offer the content side.
There's many deployment solutions
but we are ready to give the content at a low-cost
and easy-to-use way to deploy that content and create it.
Great, so, you know, what is it like to use the service?
You know, what does the end-user have to do
and how does it benefit them?
Well, the end-user, simply right now
we have, a direct to consumer model
and a business to business model.
Right now, anyone can go onto VoxTonePro.com
and they can create an audio ad or audio content.
Suppose you're a small business.
You want to create an explainer video.
You have visuals but you don't have audio, right?
You want to create narration with your audio
but you don't know where to go.
You come to us. We're kind of like the VistaPrint of audio.
So, Vista print will, basically
help businesses with their print media.
We're helping businesses with anything to do with audio
branding, specifically audio ads. So that's what we're about.
Alright, what else would you like to add?
We're expanding, actually, our languages as well.
So we're also going into Asia.
We're going in Spain.
We're going into France.
Right now, we're North American
so it's English based, North American and UK dialect.
So, we are seeing some traction with, for example, India
who like to use English based advertising
so we're getting some traction from them too.
So, for our China potential clients as well
there might be some advertising
where they want to use English right now
they can use us right now.
But, like I said, we are expanding into Chinese as well
and other Asian specific languages as well
so definitely keep tabs on us.

Hi. Could you introduce yourself?
Hi. My name is Michael E. Parker.
All right. And tell me what you do.
I'm the CEO and founder of You Are A CEO.
All right and can you explain your company a little bit?
I can.
What we did, 
is we basically took the science behind 
what helps people change behaviors,
as well as the science around gamification
and what causes people to get in the zone 
and get to their peak performance.
We see this a lot of time in games,
and we said,
"What if we took that science and built it in a platform
and gamified it in a fun way, 
but applied it to real life?"
If we could get people achieving more in their real life.
So we did a test with about 5,000 people 
and the results were unbelievable.
So when we say "You are a CEO," we're really saying 
that you're the CEO of yourself,
you run the business of you.
You're the CEO of your health,
the CEO of your money, the CEO of your relationships.
Even your insecurities, your background, your fears.
Taking ownership of yourself to be successful.
So this is what we give away,
through this new,
what we call gamified social achievement platform.
There's nothing like it on the market.
And this summer, people will be able to touch it.
Great. So how does it work exactly?
Well, there's a lot of secret sauce to it that I won't go into right now,
but basically we've taken an online community,
we've taken some edutainment,
which is education in an entertaining way,
and we've taken some gamification,
and we've wrapped all of that up to create a unique experience.
And so when someone comes up to our platform,
we kind of want to walk them through feeling like they're a CEO,
in a theme and kind of gaming way.
But soon they realize that,
although they're having fun, although they're kinda playing the game,
they're interacting, 
they're getting social validation from other CEOs,
they realize that they're becoming the CEO of themselves
and we've turned on an engine in their life,
where they're recognizing small achievements every day
and small things end up leading to big things 
as they get in this way of thinking.
So when did you start? 
And tell me a little about your other team members.
Well actually I have a unique story.
I used to work for Toyota.
I was hand picked by Kyo Toyota.
Went to Japan, became a lean management expert
and I wrote a book called "Who Said So?"
And it actually was about a technology company 
starting to use lean principles to improve itself.
And little did I know 
I would end up creating the technology platform
and coupling it with a kind of like a philosophy
that I've talked about for many times.
I was born into a situation that was very challenging.
Coming up, had a lot of challenges growing up,
in terms of my environment.
And I was able to rise above that.
And supposed to be a negative statistic,
I turned it into a positive one.
And in that journey I learned something 
about the thinking of someone who is an achiever
and who rises above obstacles.
And what I've been able to do,
is take my lean experience, my personal experience,
and technology and wrap it into this platform.
And now, it officially kinda got started about 2 or 3 years ago.
And we had alpha tests, we had beta tests.
And now we're about to put this into the open public this summer.
All right. 
Well what else would you like to add about You Are A CEO ?
Well the only thing I'd like to add about You Are A CEO 
is that it's for everybody.
And we're hoping that You Are A CEO covers the world.
It's not just for a demographic.
It's for a psychographic.
People who have a thinking about achieving more,
about being more, about being more positive, being more happy.
We've got a lot of things out there.
A lot of great social networks.
Sometimes we don't know what we're getting from them.
It goes from substantive to meaningless.
We wanna be the platform that celebrates achievement all over.
Not just fitness. Not just health.
But everything in our lives that we wanna make better.
And I'm hoping from Asia to Europe to America to all over,
people come and celebrate their success and achievement
at youareaceo.com 
All right Michael thank you very much.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
It's a pleasure.



Alright, hi. Can you introduce yourself?
So, I'm John Lunn.
I'm the senior director of developer and startup relations
for Braintree and PayPal
Great, so tell me a little bit about Braintree and PayPal.
Well, most people know what PayPal is, so
you know, we're the largest, best wallet in the world for payment.
Braintree is a payment gateway that allows
merchants to accept PayPal, credit cards,
Apple Pay, Android Pay, and BitCoin
Great. So, who are your competitors?
There's lots of companies that do gateways.
There's not many companies that are
the world's biggest, largest wallet and a gateway at the same time.
So, who do you work with?
I work with startups and developers,
so I work with anyone writing code for a startup,
or any other enterprise
and I work with startups themselves to help grow
the ecosystem and actually help them grow their businesses.
Alright, can you give me some examples of Braintree,
and you know, what kind of platforms you've - you work with?
Uber, AirBnB,  Dropbox, you name them.
The big guys - they all work with us.
So, take me through the process.
How does the company use your service
and implement that into their system? Like Uber, for example.
So, they'll come to us, they'll sign up, to use Braintree
and then they implement 5 lines of code on their
front end and a few on the back, and they're done.
Very easy.
Very nice, okay.
And, how long have you been involved?
I've been with PayPal for 9 years.
So I was a very early - I was one of the first people outside
North America , so I've been with PayPal very, very early days.
I helped grow the company from where it is,
and then last week, we split from eBay
and now, we're listed on the NASDAQs, so.
Congratulations!
Thank you.
Very nice.
Tell me about your previous experience.
So, I've always been at startups before I came to PayPal
so I started, probably, the first internet payment company
a company called CyberSource
which we grew and sold to Visa a few years later
and then started another company that we grew and sold to RSA
and then I was thinking, "What to do?"
and decided PayPal was the right place, so.
Alright, and what's your educational background?
you know, what did you study?
I'm a marine biologist, strangely,
so nothing to do with what I do today.
So, I studied marine biology and environmental pollution, so.
Great, and you're from Australia?
I'm from Switzerland.
You're from Switzerland?
Yes!
Wow. Did you spend time in Australia?
I spent time in England, actually.
In England? Oh, okay. Alright, very nice. Okay.
So, tell me a little bit about, you know,
what makes Braintree, you know, what it is.
You know, what was the history behind it?
So,  when Braintree started, we were looking to-
basically, we took a gamble before anyone else,
that mobile was going to be the next big thing.
So we believed we were going to build
a payment system for allowing people to buy on smartphones.
And that was early- this was 6 years ago?
This was before people were really smart-phoning.
That gamble has paid off.
It's grown to a point where, if you've used an Uber cab,
which most people have,
when you got out, did you notice paying?
No, you didn't. That's because they used Braintree.
We've basically created a invisible way of paying for stuff.
And that's why we've been successful because
no one's got time to type things into mobile phones
What was the idea behind this?
You know, who came up with that idea?
A guy called Brian- Brian Johnson- started the company
in Chicago, in North America
decided this was gonna be the next big thing
and he was right.
Alright, I guess he was right.
So, tell me about what you were doing with PayPal
before Braintree.
So, I was the first techie they hired outside America,
so my job was to actually-
when we started in Europe, our only client was eBay.
And, my job was to go out and work with retailers
that weren't eBay, and get them to accept PayPal
as their payment type and integrate into.
so I integrated it into most of the airlines
actually, if you went down to High Street and you pay,
most of the stores down there now take PayPal.
I then also worked on innovation, so I started building prototypes,
and interesting things like holographic shop displays,
and credit card machines that fit in your pocket,
and all kinds of fun stuff on that side.
Then, they realized I could talk,
so they sent me out to talk to people, so.
Alright, do you go to events like this-
I went to 260 events last year, so yeah.
Wow, what are some of those events?
All over the world, so, I mean, I have teams in
5- in 4 continents.
I traveled to the larger conferences
meet startups, meet developers,
speak on stage, and talk to media.
Great. Tell me about your business model, you know,
what makes you different? What do you do differently?
Well, the business model is simple.
You have to pay us, per transaction,
a percentage of what you're selling.
So, we take a percentage of your total value,
and that's how we work, so you know,
everytime someone buys something, we take a cut.
That's the business model of how we work.
It's kind of the standard business model in the industry,
I wouldn't say it's any different from anyone else.
I would say we differentiate ourselves on technology,
the scale that we can do being a part of PayPal,
and the beautiful experience they have mentioned in...
What is the technology? Is there any specific
languages used in code..
We support everything. We're virtually in every language
so we support Ruby, Python, PHP- everything.
Whatever you would need to build a franchise.
So, you've mentioned that you target startups? Or is that...-
Yeah, my team targets startups.
The company targets everyone.
So, what are some success stories?
You mentioned Uber, like can you mention some other ones?
AirBnB, big success, Dropbox,
and over here, we just- we went live in March in Hong Kong.
and we've got people like Sugar, who are live.
So, it tends to be the mobile-first companies
that we really specialize in,
and those are the companies where most of the experience
is done through the cell phone.
Alright, well, is there anything else you'd like to add?
That's all.
Alright, well thanks for your time.
I appreciate it!
Thank you!
Alright, thanks.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yeah, I'm Nathan Huey.
I'm the chief marketing officer for SoftLayer, an IBM company.
All right. Tell me a little bit about what that is.
So, SoftLayer is a cloud infrastructure as a service provider.
So for any size of company,
regardless of, you know, what they're doing in the cloud
whatever building blocks they need
to build an application,
a solution in the cloud, we have it.
So, from cloud computing to cloud storage
to networking, and then services
on top of that stuff
the whole thing all together in one place.
We have data centers around the world
so that people can have their resources
closer to their end user.
And we've been around since 2005.
We were acquired by IBM about two years ago,
and it's been a wild ride.
Tell me about the acquisition. How did that go?
It went well, you know.
One of the things we really enjoyed
as a startup, and then through our earlier years
was a real direct relationship with people
that were in the S and B space
as well as developers and startups.
But really a very transactional kind of
they get the cloud from us,
pay as they go, you know
whatever they need.
You know IBM comes out with larger services and
higher engagement kind of relationship
And so we really complemented each other
when we all came together.
And it's been cool to watch
how what we have serves as a foundation
for what IBM wants to do in the cloud
and lead the market.
But then also, how they can help us work with
and take what we were doing even farther.
So, take me a little bit through the history
from 2005 until you got acquired.
Sure, so 2005, 10 guys left another web hosting company.
They thought they had a better idea
and build a better mouse trap.
So, built SoftLayer, with the idea-
I mean this was before cloud existed,
so they had the idea that
you could take infrastructure
and provide it to people on demand,
pay as you go, but not virtualized,
so bare-metal.
So, they start this company,
and it grows like wildfire.
You know, the web hosting community
picked it up really quickly,
but then also people who were
building new applications in the cloud, you know,
Web 2.0, Software as a service,
those kinds of solutions,
really found a home on our platform.
And so, we grew pretty quickly
over the first 5 years.
To the point where a private equity firm
out of San Francisco bought
a majority share of the company.
We took things a little bit further then.
We expanded into Singapore and into Amsterdam.
We already had a wide customer base around the world,
but now we were able to bring our resources
locally to them.
And then, IBM acquired us.
You know, they saw what we were doing,
and they said, "Yeah, that's what we need."
And since then we've grown- we've added
10 more data centers
in 10 more cities around the world last year.
I've lost track of how many we've added this year.
So, it's just a... It's hard to...
Sometimes it seems like 10, 11 years
has been a long time, other times it feels like
it was just yesterday.
So, it's been pretty fast.
What is it like to be acquired by such a huge company like IBM?
It's fun, it's interesting.
You know, one of the things we're running into at our size,
where we were before acquisition, was that
we were really ready to get into the enterprise space.
And you know, there are a lot of things we knew about
working with customers that had a large need
for our services, but might have been
smaller size companies.
We didn't have as much experience hands-on with the, you know,
Fortune 50, Fortune 100 size of customers.
So, working with IBM and getting to use their experience,
and really getting to understand IBM,
is that size of a company itself and
becoming part of that,
it's been really educational.
And also it's been really empowering.
You know, we- you have a certain size of your own,
you have a certain scope that you can really approach.
And then you bring in a partner, an owner,
like IBM, and it just, you know, it opens your eyes
it also as well opens up the scope of things
you can approach.
Great.
Tell me about your role in the company,
and what you do, and what kind of responsibilities you have.\NSure.
So, I'm the chief marketing officer for SoftLayer,
and now... I have a slightly different title
within IBM.
I still focus a lot of my time on SoftLayer.
We have responsibility for
pretty much the entire brand,
as well as demand and awareness generation.
So, we have a team of people that,
of course, work on product marketing,
and really understanding the offer,
and being subject matter experts on the offering.
But then even further than that,
taking it and knowing the solutions
the people can use our offering to solve
or to create.
So, then we have teams,
in-house teams, that really
take that and execute it.
So, a lot of things that some people
would take to an agency or outsource,
we do in-house.
So, we have digital marketing team,
that does everything from page search to display,
buys it, manages it in-house.
In-house web team, on and on and on...
So really the strategy to messaging,
what to do with it,
and how we're going to express it.
We also have regional teams
and who are really the guys that
take it and tweak it, customize it
to what their market needs it to be
and brings us to places like this event.
Great.
Tell me about your background a little bit,
educational and professional.
Yeah, so I kind of have a strange background
for my position actually.
I have a bachelor's in marketing
from Arizona State University.
And then I went,
and I got a master's in advertising
from the University of Texas at Austin in Texas...
thinking I was going to be an advertising creator
for my entire career
So I started out as a copywriter,
went through a bunch of different agencies and
eventually became a creative director.
And I was working with a small agency
actually that was working with SoftLayer
when it was a startup.
And so we were basically the marketing department
for SoftLayer.
And as SoftLayer grew our need- their needs
became so large I ended up just joining them in-house.
And from there kind of helping us grow
and mature the entire marketing discipline
inside the company.
So do you have any competitors?
And you know, if you do, how do you compare?
Yeah, so we have a lot of competitors
in a lot of different ways, you know.
We're a different kind of cloud infrastructure as a service provider.
You know, we put out a range of things
that other people don't.
Like so, bare-metal servers on demand.
But there are other people who do similar things so.
Amazon Web Services, for instance, or
Microsoft Azure.
You know, the way that we're different from them
is that, you know, they are really good at providing
quick and very flexible, but in a way
almost disposable resources.
So all they really have is virtualized
for the most part.
Whereas, what we provide customers is
a set of bare-metal resources
as well as virtual resources,
but with the access to the actual
bare-metal infrastructure and control over
that you would expect to have
with virtual infrastructure.
So the difference that that provides our customers
is that they can take a development,
we're kind of a dev/test environment,
on virtual, but when it's time for that
to become production ready,
and they want the performance advantages
and the durability, the sustainability of
bare-metal infrastructure,
they can keep it all still within SoftLayer,
and then still have the virtual capacity
to scale as they need to.
The other thing is that we have
this global footprint.
And all of our data centers actually are connected
to each other with a private network.
So, if you're moving things between
data centers, or replicating between data centers,
with our competitors, at some point
you may be moving data over a public network connection.
But for us, it's all behind the scenes,
all behind the firewall.
So... and it's on meters,
so it's entirely free.
So, it provides a huge advantage
to people who have global operations
or have security concerns and
have data they don't want
ever exposed to the public.
So, you know, we think our competitors
are really good and really great things,
but it's the difference between
I don't know, like a... maybe a disposable camera and
a complete photography studio of your own.
Okay. Tell me about your target audience
and how you, you know,
talk to your customers.
Sure. So, our target audience ranges quite a bit
because, you know, we provide really
kind of the fundamental building blocks
for lots of different things.
And so, on one end of the spectrum,
we really are talking to the people
who get their hands on it,
the sysadmins the DevOps... guys, you know,
So developers and, you know, application architects.
So those guys who are going to take
a log and get access to a server
know what to do with it.
You know, but from there
then we also have a lot of customers
that are higher into
you know, kind of an IT department or
even in the line of business
inside of a company.
So, you know, again, the...
whether it's the senior architect
for an entire IT organization,
or even the CIO who's trying
to figure out what they need
to empower a large- their large organization,
we kind of have to run the range
of the entire spectrum.
So, where are you based?
I'm based out of Dallas office.
Dallas, Texas.
All right. And how many people are there?
In our Dallas office...
Overall we have more than 800 people
in the Dallas office,
but in marketing alone,
we have roughly 25.
Then we have another 10, 10-15 people
in our offices around the world,
that are just specifically
software and marketing.
Okay, so if someone asks you
to describe SoftLayer in 5-10 words
what would you say?
Cloud infrastructure as a service,
exceptional price per performance.
You know, what you get, you know, and what you pay for
it is- you can't beat it.
All right.
Well, thanks for your time.
I appreciate it.
Yeah, great. Thanks.
Take care.

Hi, how are you doing?
I'm good. How are you doing.
Pretty good. Can you introduce yourself?
Hi, I'm Sonny, CEO and founder of Misfit.
All right, tell me a little bit about Misfit.
What do you do? 
So, Misfit makes a number of 
wearable and smart home products.
So that's what we invent and market.
Our very first product was the Misfit Shine,
which is an elegant activity tracker
that you can wear anywhere.
All right, and now, do you have any competitors?
We have a lot of competitors.
There's probably over 500 products in the space, at least,
so it's a very big space, 
it's a space that's gotten a lot of attention.
How do you compare to your competitors?
Our products do roughly the same thing
as other products out there:
Steps, calories, distance, that kind of thing,
sleep tracking, you know,
so a lot of these products do the same thing,
to be completely honest.
I think ours are just prettier.
We also don't require charging.
So the no-charging thing's a big deal.
All right. So, what was your background?
What were you involved with before this?
So my last company was AgaMatrix, 
a medical device company.
So we were serving the diabetes community,
so we had a lot of...
Those were good times.
We made a lot of hardware, 
got a lot of stuff cleared through the FDA,
so it was a good run.
We did that for about ten years.
And then the company before that was a software business.
We did natural language processing, 
stuff that I'd worked on during grad school.
And we sold that to a search engine.
Tell me about your educational background.
So, I went to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign.
I did a degree in math and in linguistics,
so that's my background,
and then went to MIT to do a PhD in linguistics.
Very nice. What made you interested in linguistics?
You know, I just always, I like people,
and I love talking to people, I love languages,
and I thought linguistics was 
about studying a bunch of languages,
which it isn't.
But, you know, I like the field anyways.
That's great. That was my minor as well, so I...
Oh yeah?
I like it as well, yeah.
Cool.
So tell me about your team at Misfit.
Who are some of your other co-founders?
Yeah, so, Sridhar is a co-founder with me
in the last few companies, you know,
we've been just,
we've known each other for a long time.
romance in college, you know, 
we've known each other since the end of high school.
And then, you know, we've had John Sculley,
the former CEO of Apple and Pepsi,
for about 5 years ago,
and we just became friends
and so we just decided to start a company together,
so it's me, Sridhar, and John.
How's it like working with Sculley, who's,
I mean, a pretty big name, worked for Pepsi-Cola
and Apple...
Yeah. John is just an amazing mentor.
Just really a wise, wise person.
And so it's great to...to be...to really have his mentorship.
Nice. So, what do you hope to do with Misfit
as this time goes forward?
You know, we're looking to, I mean
our goal is we're trying to figure out
how to make technology either beautiful or invisible,
and just make it really useful
so that we can move on with our lives
and not just be caught up with our apps
and our smartphones.
You know, just making technology much more accessible.
And hopefully we can solve some big problems, you know,
and make or build a company that matters.
Did you see the future of this industry growing?
Wearables?
I think it's going to grow for a while,
you know, we're really just at the beginning.
It feels like 1998 for the web, you know?
The big companies haven't even been founded, I think.
So we're just getting started.
Right. And where are you located?
What kind of, where are the offices, are you located?
So we have a small office in Burlingame, in the Bay Area.
So, we have some of our hardware engineering and design
that's done there.
We have a large operation in Vietnam, 
about a hundred people,
where we do a lot of our R&D and software operations,
finance, that kind of thing, customer service.
And then also, in Shenzhen,
where we do all of our app's front-end development
and back-end, that kind of thing.
And then in Beijing, we have a small office there
for commercial development.
So a lot of Asian presence. 
About 3/4 of our teams are in Asia.
And as the CEO, 
what are some of your daily tasks and routines?
You know, I spend most of my time recruiting,
and with sales. You know, that's, 
I think the two of the most important things that I can do,
and I just kind of leave product to the people
who are experts at it in the company.
And you seem to be pretty active at events,
so what are some of the events you've been to in the past,
you know, year or two?
You know, this is our first time at Rise, 
of course, this is the first Rise,
so, been to Web Summit, those are a lot of fun,
so big fans of some of the stuff that Patty's put together.
It's good stuff, you know?
We like the tech events, 
mainly because I get to meet with startups, you know? 
And figure out what people are up to 
and what's happening, really get a good pulse of the tech, 
you know, different tech ecosystems.
You mentioned that you do work with sales, 
so can you describe your business model?
Yeah, we make little things 
that people wear and we sell them, you know? 
I mean, it's pretty straightforward. 
You know, we sell them online, 
offline as well in a lot of retail stores. 
Lot of retail presence around the world. 
We're in over 51 countries. 
And for some, you know, the brand's taken off, 
and I'm just really delighted that's happened.
It's not, you know, we haven't really spent that much money
on marketing or anything, so, it's been fairly organic.
So tell me about your target audience 
and what kind of, how many users do you have?
Yeah, so, you know, we've, with Shine, 
it's turned out to be the case 
that it's appealed to women really well.
So I think the wearable space has largely overlooked women. 
A lot of the products look like they're, 
as I've always said, 
they look like they were designed by Silicon Valley geeks 
for Silicon Valley geeks. 
And the world is much bigger than Silicon Valley, 
and so, you know, trying to appeal to folks 
who are the rest of us, folks who want something 
that looks nice, so, you know, we did Shine. That's what, 
you know, we went for elegance, design, fashionable... 
We had a whole accessories play, 
and that's worked out pretty well. Shine was good. 
And then we, as we looked at the space again, 
we thought, you know, we need 
these products to be more useful. 
We need them to do more stuff. 
And so, we came out, that's why 
we launched this new product. 
It's called the Flash Link. 
It's just like this whole thing that you can clip on.
It's an activity tracker just like Shine, 
except it's made of, it's plastic, 
so it's less expensive to make. 
But the big difference is, 
the big thing that so we could introduce this now, 
I can program this to do all sorts of stuff. 
So the Flash Link now can be programmed 
to be a presentation clicker, 
so when I'm giving my talk tomorrow, 
I'll be able to use it just to advance slides. 
I can make it start and stop music. 
And the other thing that's really cool is 
I can use this to take a selfie. So I can do this, I mean...
and take a shot, you know? So, you know, 
it's trying to make it more useful, and really making it into... 
So it's really becoming like a button for the Internet of Things. 
A control device. 
And I really think that's one of the areas 
where wearables is going to go, 
where we're going to move beyond 
just tracking and alerts and notifications 
and really make things that are going to do more. 
So controls, I think, is one of the big things out there.
So, you mentioned Shine. 
Can you show me what other devices you have?
So, I'm wearing the Shine right now. 
And this is the Flash Link. 
This is the new product that we just launched 
with the Link app, the Misfit Link app. 
And then the other thing that we're, 
we've got a bunch of home products. 
So we got products that are for the home, 
like the smart bulb that we have that I'm really excited about, 
the Misfit Bolt. It is an amazing product. 
The industrial design is bar-none, 
it is the best-looking bulb I think out there. 
I know I'm biased, but I mean, it looks great. 
I mean, the bulb itself looks great. 
The light is beautiful. It's easy to set up. 
It's Bluetooth, so you just screw it in, 
control it with your app or with your device, 
or with a Flash Link. And it's really affordable. 
It's fifty bucks, you know? So anybody can have one, 
and it's kind of a fun product. 
And we have ourself a bed sensor 
called the Misfit Beddit product, 
which you just put on your bed, 
and it measures your heart rate, breathing, 
all sorts of stuff that, 
and you don't have to wear anything, 
that's the best part about it. 
And so we've got more wearables coming out this fall. 
We've got more home stuff. You know, it's, yeah, 
it's, yeah. So we're roaring in terms of products. 
Now we've just got to get the word out, you know,
because we're still, you know...still a startup. 
And the products have only been out for a year and a half. 
Everyone thinks we've been out for years, 
and this is not true. We just launched in Q4 2013, so.
Wow. Yeah, I thought you were out for a long time too. 
I guess just the name, 
it sounds like it's been around for a while.
It feels like it, but no, it's only been out for like two seasons.
Wow, nice. How many people are using it right now?
You know, we have a, we've sold... 
So we launched in Q4 2013, and in Q4 2014, 
we shipped over a million units. 
So it's moved pretty quickly. But like I said, we're still, 
we're just getting started.
Nice. And is there any other, you know, 
device that you're planning on that's not announced yet, or...?
Yeah, we've got a bunch of stuff coming out. 
So, just stay tuned for that.
Well, all right.
Yeah.
Sounds good. All right, well, I appreciate your time.
Yeah.
And thanks a lot.
Great.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Yes, I'm Alexander Fernandez.
I'm the CEO of Streamframe and Streamline Media Group.
Tell me a little bit about Streamframe and what you do.
Yeah, Streamframe is the first video game project management system.
It's been built to help video game developers
actually complete their projects by giving them
project management, client management, analytics, financial, as well as
the task and collaboration forecasts they need
in order to get their project done.
Alright, and what gave you this idea to start this?
About 10 years ago, we were making games
and we basically realized we needed to have
a better way to actually do our projects,
but at the time there was nothing actually available on the market
so we started developing it.
And then soon our customers began asking if they could license it
so we thought, "Why not?"
And, what's your business model?
Software as a service.
People paid a monthly subscription per-user, per-seat.
And, you know, who do you target?
The video game's industry,
but then advertising as well as other creative sectors.
Alright, can you tell me a little bit about your customers?
Basically, the top AAA developers that make basically things like
for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
What's your educational background,
and how did you get involved in to startups?
I have a high-school diploma, and two months-
well actually two semesters of university.
Basically, I dreamed about making games
and I started working with my friends,
and we built our company.
Originally, started Streamline 14 years ago,
four of us and $15,000,
and then we grew the business from there.
And how big is your team now?
We're over 100 people,
based out of Kuala Lumpur, Las Vegas, and Amsterdam.
Wow, so you have offices in Malaysia and the U.S.?
Yes.
And tell me about those offices.
Well, basically U.S. office is finance, marketing, business development
and Malaysia is full development, software, content,
as well as the ability to sit there and do all of our business operations.
Why did you choose Malaysia?
It's a good place.
Malaysia's really good cost advantage over everyone else,
but they have the talent more than anything else.
It's a very good place in Southeast Asia.
Very nice. Okay.
Now tell me about how you compare to your competition.
Well it depends on what you look at as our competition
because most of the software that's available from our compeition is
focused on specific areas.
For instance, one competitor only does the engineering side.
Another competitor only does the graphic side.
We end up being holistic across the organization.
We bring everyone together
in order to help them understand
what marketing, PR,  and development is doing,
but also what our customers are saying
about the product that they're doing.
And we bring that all in one place.
Very nice. Alright.
What's one more thing you'd like to add about your company?
Well, I mean, what we're doing right now is 
we're basically offering 9 seats free
for everyone to come on forever
because it's our way of basically giving back to the games industry
but also to see other businesses grow
the way we wanted to grow back when we first started.
Alright, thanks for your time. I really appreciate it. And good luck.
Thanks a lot.

Hi, can you introduce yourself and your service?
Yes, certainly.
My name is Case Everaert,
and I'm with a company called ETEAQ.
ETEAQ is a company
that makes accessories for mobile phones,
and they're made of wood.
And this is recycled wood
that we get out of Indonesia
and, not only that,
when we make these products,
they have a unique number on them,
and that number is associated
with a tree that is planted
on your behalf in a forest.
So, not only do we recycle wood,
we also give wood back to nature.
And that makes it a unique product.
Tell me the history behind this
and why you wanted to start the company.
The history behind this,
last year, we started this company.
It's only about 12 months old.
And, we essentially found an opportunity
to deal with customers
who really want to help
and do something about deforestation.
And they don't have any idea how to do that,
but via our product, we actually can.
So if you buy a product with us,
you're helping reforest the world.
All right. Sounds very good.
So, you're based in Hong Kong,
and you said you get the trees from Indonesia?
Yeah, so we're based in Hong Kong,
but we do, currently, all our business in Indonesia,
where we source our materials.
The material comes from houses that have been demolished.
It's old wood.
But we make absolutely beautiful products with it.
And these products, we then bring to Hong Kong.
Are these your products right here?
Yeah. These are the products.
These are the iPhone cases that we've, actually,
that we are selling here today.
Very nice.
Okay, so how big is your team,
and can you introduce that a little more?
We have a team of 5 people here in Hong Kong,
but we have a very large team in Indonesia
that deals with, actually, the demolishing
of the houses, the manufacturing of the wood.
That all takes place in Indonesia.
So there's, more or less,
a marketing and management company here in Hong Kong,
but there's a production facility in Indonesia.
Very nice. All right.
So what's your business strategy? Business model.
Okay. Well, the business model is actually quite interesting.
We have a proprietary app called Tree Tracker.
And with Tree Tracker,
you can see which product is linked with what tree.
Now, what we have found out is
that consumers are willing to pay extra
for products that are linked to trees.
It makes them feel good.
One of our customers said,
Your product gives me energy.
Now, what we have found out is that,
not only do our customers like this,
there's other companies that like this as well.
What we're going to do is
we're going to use Tree Tracker, our app,
and we want to give this to other companies.
So, for instance, Nike.
If you buy a pair of shoes,
you now get a tree with it, and a number.
Or you buy a BMW. You get a tree with it.
You open a bank account at HSBC.
Normally, you would get a toaster or something like that.
In this case, you'd get a tree.
And we're hoping to build consumer activism
on a global scale this way.
So where are these trees planted
and who does the planting?
Okay, the planting is being done by an NGO.
Sorry, the trees come from an NGO.
They grow the trees. They make saplings.
The saplings are then given to farmers in Indonesia.
They planted them on your behalf.
There's a very specific coordinate associated with the tree,
so you can go online and actually find your trees.
So if I take my own iPhone case,
that is my number,
and that number is associated with a specific tree
that you can actually look up online.
Very cool.
All right, well thanks a lot. I appreciate it.
All right. You're welcome. Thank you.
All right. Thanks.

Can you introduce yourself and the company?
Yeah, sure.
So my name's Ernie Prado.
Our company is called re:3D
and we produce the largest, most affordable
industrial 3D printer, called Gigabot.
It's our flagship model.
And the smallest one is 60cm to a side
of the print volume,
so we got 60 x 60 x 60.
And if you look at this print right here,
it'll be that tall, that deep, and that wide.
And that's our smallest one.
We sell one that's about 16cm deeper
called Gigabot Excel,
and then we're also working on one
that's 1m to the sides.
So 1m x 1m x 1.3m.
And that is a volume that can fit myself in it.
Wow. So, what's the history behind your company?
So, we actually started off as a storefront enterprise.
We want to find a way to print, like, trash plastic.
So we noticed that there's a lot
that needs to be taken care of.
And how can you use it in a good way?
So, what we were thinking is, like,
compostable toilets,
rainwater collection systems.
You take it out to a third-world country.
You help get rid of the trash,
and you help people's lives.
So it's a big vision.
And we're proceeding that way.
We've actually printed with recycled materials.
So this right here is actually recycled PET,
and you can see that it works a little bit different
than some of the other materials.
But we're working in that way.
And so we've been around for 2 and a half years,
We were funded on Kickstarter.
And we've grown organically since then.
We have about 300 products out on the field
in 38 different countries,
so the user base is really wide.
Community is very important to us.
We really try to stay involved
with what our customers are doing
because we love the ideas that they have.
And they apply it in ways
that we would never think of.
Tell me about your Kickstarter campaign.
So we've actually had two.
So we had one in 2013,
and that's where we launched Gigabot.
So, we massively exceeded
anything that we were expecting.
We were fully funded within 24 hours.
And we raised enough money
to get the company going for the next year.
I think that was 100 printers off the bat, immediately,
that we had to fulfill within the next year.
And then we recently launched one
for Open Gigabot in March, I believe.
And so we met that goal as well,
so we've got two successfully funded campaigns
and that's called Open Gigabot,
which is looking to make
the user experience of 3D printing better.
So we took a lot of feedback from the community
and said, "What would you like us to input in this printer?"
So you've already got a Gigabot.
How would you make it better?
You're going to be in this design process.
And so we're hoping to get those products out
later this year.
So, what is your educational background
and how did you get into 3D printing?
So I'm actually a mechanical engineer
and an aeronautical engineer by trade.
I got into 3D printing very serendipitously.
So, I knew I wanted to do something in the startup world,
and my day job was great, and I love what I do.
I get to work for space. It's
You can't get better than that.
And so I had a mutual friend, and I told her,
Hey, you know, I'd like to do something,
and she said, "Well, I know a guy who's in 3D printing,
and he just started a company.
You two would be good friends."
So I met up with them, and within 5 minutes,
I was sold on the company vision
of changing the world with printing from trash.
Great. So what was your previous experience with space?
So, I actually help develop trainees,
aides for astronauts before they fly.
I work in a building that has a mockup of the Space Station.
And so I'm a project manager there,
and I help develop and bring products
from cradle to grave.
Maintain, upgrade, and all that.
Which company was that?
Actually, I work for NASA.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right.
How was that?
It's still great.
Yeah. You still work for NASA?
Yes. During the day.
Okay.
So these activities are completely unrelated.
And it's just very cool that I get to do two passions,
you know, I'd heard about 3D printing before.
I had no idea how to get into it.
And I just thought it was a neat technology.
I'd never seen anything or touched anything 3D-printed,
and then within the span of
a week from meeting Matthew and some of the other founders,
I've now become, you know,
pretty knowledgeable in it,
and we get to help people's lives better
and create new and awesome things.
So what's your vision for changing the world with...
I would love to get a 3D printer in everybody's hands.
So it really democratizes manufacturing.
And everybody has the freedom
to get whatever's in their mind, those creative things,
going, and make them real.
So, children, particularly.
So they have not yet learned to be limited
by the outside world.
And so, if they can dream up something
and make it real,
the things that we'll have are incredible.
So one example that I'm particularly proud of is,
I've kept in touch with my high school physics teacher,
and he actually purchased 6 of the Gigabots from us.
And so the students that got them
noticed another student, who had a disability
where her muscles atrophied.
So she couldn't feed herself.
So they took it upon themselves,
just being kind and saying, hey,
we've got this cool machine here.
Why don't we print her an aid
so she could feed herself?
And, so for the first time,
she was able to eat without assistance.
And they'd just attach it to a wheelchair.
I mean, that is the coolest thing,
giving someone the opportunity
to function more normally.
Children who are born with congenital birth defects
that may be missing a hand,
we can 3D print a prosthetic, you know,
they may grow out of something in 6 months
because they grow so fast,
and to let them do that, and change their lives,
and make them more normal and, just fit in
it's incredible.
You're giving them something
that basically they may not be able
to get any other way.
That's amazing.
- Yeah, it's incredible. - Well, very inspirational.
Well, thank you very much for the introduction.
- I appreciate it. - Absolutely.
Thanks.
Great to meet you.

So go ahead and introduce yourself.
My name is Geoff. I work with Travelog.
We are a content-based travel app
that provides city guides for 10 cities across Asia.
Okay. And what made you guys want to start this?
A bunch of the co-founders, we all traveled around Asia a bunch,
and there wasn't this platform, this product, around
to help us find what we wanted to do
beyond, like, Lonely Planet, like, recommended hot restaurants in town,
cool events coming up,
hidden spots, all the underground knowledge
that maybe you don't get from the bigger platforms.
Okay. So what makes you guys so different?
It's that depth of knowledge.
We have a network of writers, bloggers, magazines
that we work with in every city
that live there, on the ground,
and what they do is they give us their best information,
and therefore, we can pass it around to people who travel around Asia.
Okay. So then, what is your demographic, then?
A little bit younger. 25-40.
English speakers.
People like me and maybe.
Okay. So only English speakers?
For now, we're only doing English.
In the future, we may do other languages.
But for now, we want to get it right in English first.
Okay. So what's your business model.
Actually, for you, it's free.
But we'll make our money on the B2B side.
We'll write content for you. We'll syndicate our content
for your use.
We can host your content on our site.
Editorials, advertising, things like that.
Okay. So what's your educational background?
I grew up in Canada.
and I...Yeah. I grew up in Canada, I went to school there,
and I moved to Asia pretty much right after I graduated.
and I've been here for seven years now.
Seven years, wow.
So, did you go to school thinking you wanted to do this?
Actually, I went to school, I studied finance.
And when I came to Asia, I became a writer and an editor,
in Shanghai, I ran a magazine for a few years,
and then, now, I'm working with Travelog,
and hope to use those skills to help educate people
help them to do their research and have the best trip possible when they come here.
Right. So then, how do people find you, then?
How do people find you to use you?
Well, actually, most of our growth has been organic so far.
But we're doing a big relaunch in September.
And after that, we'll do a lot of marketing push.
Facebook, social media, online stuff.
And hopefully, friends will tell their friends to use it too.
Of course, of course. So how long have you guys been around, then?
About a year.
A year?
Um, yeah.
The company was originally founded in Seoul
and then, now base of operations has moved to Singapore.
but our team is spread out across Asia
like our app. So we have a team still in Seoul,
in Singapore, and I'm in Shanghai.
Wow. So you say you're an application, right?
Yeah, we're an app.
So, do you, you're available on all platforms, like Apple, Android...?
We have an Apple, iOS app. And we also have a website.
But the app is our main, is our key feature.
Ah, okay. Cool. Was there anything else
you would like the users to know about your product?
No, yeah, we're relaunching in September,
and after that, we'll have some more awesome cool content
that will be featured in more fun and interesting ways.
Cool. Well, thank you so much for your time.
Cool, thanks.
Yeah.

Okay, so go ahead and introduce yourself.
So, my name is Idris McClain.
I am- I'm one of the co-founders of Mentrorverse,
which helps connect students looking to study abroad
with admissions counseling professionals in the U.S. and the U.K.
So, if you're looking for an MBA program
we help to connect you to people who know the process
and can actually help you get into school.
So, how long have you guys been around?
We launched about two months ago,
the Mentorverse platform.
About a year ago we started a small consulting business
to help students do the same thing,
but we couldn't scale it with just the four of us.
So we've tapped into our network.
I mean, we're all educators
so we have a network of about 65 mentors
with professional experience
or who are currently enrolled in grad schools or undergraduate programs
that we can leverage for advice.
Okay, so what made you guys want to start this?
Well, like I said, we're all educators.
So, I worked in a boarding school admissions office
for about five years,
and there was a need for helping international students,
basically communicating the process.
I mean they couldn't really tell their story.
They didn't know how to navigate just some of the nuances
of a U.S. admissions process.
So, understanding that need I came to Shanghai
and helped to build a company-
Well, helped to build a boarding school counseling service
for a big Chinese company.
Now, we're coming from the nonprofit side, 
so for-profit business, the visions didn't really align.
So, I decided I could do the work better on my own.
So I met my partner there,
who shared a similar vision,
and we were able to provide quality service to students
or families who need advice on how to navigate that process.
So we offer teaching, we offer consulting advice
putting people in front of, you know, mentors, or admissions professionals
or admissions offices we have so...
Okay, so do you have any competitors?
There are quite a few competitors.
I mean, China's a huge market
in the education industry, the for-profit education industry.
So there are plenty of counseling services,
college counseling, boarding school counseling,
and now graduate school counseling services.
But we are one of the only companies that have
people who have formally been in admissions offices
working and running the business.
So like I said, we are educators first.
We're not finance people. We're not business people.
We have one guy on our team who has a law background,
but even so his passion is in education.
So we offer quality service.
So is that what sets you apart is the fact that you guys...
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what sets us apart and then our network.
You know, being- coming from the U.S. and
and being on that side, on the other side of the desk,
we're able to have this massive network of people
that we travel with or work with personally,
who believe in us, and who trust us.
And trust goes a long way when you're working with schools
in the U.S. and the U.K. so...
So how do people start using you?
I mean like how do you, you know, advertise out? I mean how do you...
Well, we're- we've been basically word-of-mouth referral.
So China is big on pedigrees,
So where you've been in your experience is huge,
and of course results.
We've had kids get accepted to some of the top universities
in high schools, in grad schools, and you know, in the world.
So having that reputation sells, so to speak.
Well, education is continuously growing.
In Asia and now Southeast Asia, you know,
it's becoming an emerging market,
especially for counseling needs.
and for students looking outward, or looking west to study.
So, you'll see a lot of places popping up,
counseling services or, you know, English tutors
or, you know, practices that are geared towards an audience
that are looking to study elsewhere.
So, we would love to expand at some point into these markets.
Because again, then you've got-
Just like the China market 10 years ago needed this,
these markets are now becoming sort of privy
to all this information and success.
So they need guidance.
How many users do you have right now?
So right now on Mentorverse we have two paid users.
But we've received inquires from all over the world.
I mean, mainly in China.
but we're receiving inquiries from Brazil, India, Singapore, Malaysia,
you know you name it, so we're-
Like I said it's been word-of-mouth,
this network has been able to spread the word in different parts of the globe
and that's bringing a lot of attention to us.
Especially because, you know, 
our curated network of people is pretty strong.
So then what is your business model then?
Our business model is so, basically it's a remote service right.
So again, if you wanted to study an MBA,
you know, you come to us, or you go on our platform,
put in information in terms of what you're seeking or looking for
and we help to match you with, you know, a fit mentor for you
that can help you say, go to GSB at Stanford,
or HBS, Harvard Business School.
Someone who may have experience with that specific process
or who may have just vast knowledge
on admissions practices at different schools around the country.
So there's- Right now we're working on a video interface
and messaging support,
so you can actually do that on the site.
Right now we're working mainly through emails or Skype meetings
because we just don't have the back-end platform built.
You know, we launched two months ago,
but we have the network there
who's ready to work with our customers.
So, that's how we work.
Cool, and is your team pretty big? How big is your team?
We have four guys.
Four guys.Wow!
But I mean, our mentor base is about 65 strong.
So all that we are doing, some hand-on work with the clients
Our mentors are doing most of the work.
Wow, very cool. Okay.
And we take commission so...
Oh, you take commission?
Right.
I see. I see.
Yeah, so we have set fees and then we can take a certain percentage
depending on the professional experience of our mentors,
to answer your question.
Very cool. Okay well thank you so much for your time.
Thank you very much.

All right, can you introduce yourself and what you have here? 
Sure. So, I'm Jacqui Hocking. 
I'm the creative director and co-founder of Gone Adventurin. 
Yeah. Gone Adventurin is basically trying to disrupt 
what is the traditional kind of marketing and advertising. 
What we do is we'll take companies on adventures. 
We'll take their employees. 
We'll take them to really experience 
either sustainability or social impact causes, 
and then through that, we'll document the experience 
and make feature films and video content 
which fills up their Facebook, their Twitter, and, 
like, it's a new way of doing digital advertising. 
Great. Do you have any competitors, or...? 
Actually, I think, 
we're probably one of the only people in the world 
that's actually doing this. 
Because for us, as a social enterprise, 
we find that by doing these stories, 
with real purpose behind them, 
like finding real, authentic human connections, 
it's actually much more powerful 
than traditional marketing and traditional advertising. 
Because people actually feel a purpose 
in sharing the content and wanting to be involved. 
So I don't think there's anyone else in the world 
that combines that kind of adventure experience, 
which is physically consulting, 
finding out the best solution for the companies, 
and also doing like the filmmaking 
and the documentary storytelling. 
So, what's the background behind this 
and why you wanted to start it? 
So, I'm a documentary filmmaker, 
and I wanted to work with a friend of mine 
who's working in banking. 
And he wanted to quit his job at banking 
because he's lost purpose for doing it. 
And so, together, we joined forces, 
and we're looking 
at how business can be more sustainable 
and more meaningful. So...
Really, it was an accident that we started a company, 
and it's now kind of grown. 
We're 5 years old. 
We've been expanding. 
We wrote for some of the like biggest banks, FMCG, 
all of these organizations which know that, like, 
the way that they do business is no longer sustainable. 
You need to find different ways of doing it, 
and and you need to find 
a more authentic way to connect with your consumers. 
So the way that we pitch it 
is really about connecting big companies with smaller communities 
and, like, the general consumer as well.
So what's the process? 
How do you go through it and get involved?
Okay, so, we have three phases for all of our clients. 
And the first phase is incubation. 
So really helping companies to incubate new ideas 
on how they can solve their problems, right? 
Once we've incubated that, 
we go on to the next phase, which is activation. 
And really, 
that's just about using all of our networks around the world 
to pick which country we're going to focus on 
and then design a physical experience and adventure for them. 
The last one is amplifying. 
We amplify the results, 
so we do that through filmmaking, storytelling. 
Unlike a traditional film production company, 
we could shoot something during the day, 
edit it in the afternoon, and we can upload it at night. 
So by the afternoon, we've already connected 
with all of their internal and external networks 
around the world. So it's a much more, 
a faster approach of doing digital storytelling.
And what's your business model?
So basically, we're still into like an agency model. 
Like, companies are just hiring us 
to create value out of their social impact. 
So instead of CSR being like a side product, 
what we're really doing is bringing CSR into the core business value, 
making the company sustainable from a core business. 
So, yeah, the business model is really simple. 
Companies are paying us the way 
that they would do a traditional advertising. 
But the one advantage that we have is 
because we're a social enterprise. 
We put purpose before profit.
So for us, we're much cheaper 
than a traditional, you know, advertising agency, because for us, 
the benefit is really that social and environmental impact.
So all the videos I'm looking at now are, 
did you shoot all of them? Did you film them all?
Yeah, actually, I'm a documentary filmmaker, 
so all of this content, we shoot very grassroots.
Because they look amazing, so I was just curious.
Thanks, yeah yeah. It's lots of fun. we travel around the world. 
We go on lots of adventures. 
Mountains, diving, all this kind of stuff, so it's a lot of fun.
All right. Well thanks for your time, I appreciate it.
Yeah, cool. I hope I answered your questions. Thank you.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Sure, hi. My name is Joanne Lee.
I work for TAP Events, and we develop and deliver
digital event technology for conferences and live events
All right. And tell me about your background
and how you got involved.
Sure. So I come from a consulting background.
I was consulting for Audi in the US
prior to moving over here to Hong Kong.
Wanted to work for a startup.
Met the founder at a coworking space,
and our skill set just happened to match really well.
All right. And, you know,
what kind of service do you provide,
and how is it different
from any competitors in the market?
Sure. So, what we do is a web-based conference app.
We actually offer a suite of conference apps
for live events, and the way we really differentiate ourselves
is the technology stack we build on.
We use a technology called Meteor
that allows us to build and deploy reactive web apps
in a very very fast period of time.
All right. And who's your target audience?
Mostly, right now, banks and large corporations.
We're helping them improve their corporate events
and make them a little bit more fun and engaging.
Long term, we want to target the world.
All right. And tell me about your team.
Sure. So Chris Hitchcott is our CTO and founder.
I do all of our business and business development
and project management,
and then we also have two on-site operators.
One of them focuses on front-end web development,
and the other one focuses on networking.
So, network and internet setup and stuff,
and he's a specialist in that.
Okay. Do you usually attend events like this
to get the word out?
This is actually our first one.
We mostly spread our business
through word of mouth,
and our clients just come back.
They repeat business.
They recommend us to other clients,
and we work a lot with event agencies
both in Hong Kong and around the Asia region
Very nice. And whats your background?
I studied international business.
I'm Canadian and, yeah, I come from consulting,
but now I'm working for startups.
How do you like working in the startup scene?
It's fantastic.
It is just so much more fun
than working in the corporate world.
All right, well, good luck, and thanks a lot.
Thank you. Great meeting you.

So go ahead and indroduce yourself and your company.
So I'm Jennifer Mak, and my company is called Jennifer Mak.
We're in the luxury handbag business.
Luxury handbag...And how'd that start for you?
Well, you know it's a passion of mine,
so I've kind of always wanted to do it.
I used to, kind of like, make my own little handbag with like cloth and,
so it's just kind of like the right moment presented itself.
Very cool. So when did you guys start?
We started over three years ago.
Three years, wow. And so what's your educational background then?
I actually didn't study design formally.
I studied business. I went to Columbia Business School.
Very cool. So it just happened out of nowhere?
You know, after business school I was helping someone,
an investor in the fashion space,
building new brands,
and I really liked it.
And I've always liked products like beyond handbags.
I love footwear. I love accessories. I love apparel. 
So after getting that experience of building new brands,
and I thought I would just do it on my own.
Cool. So you only do handbags?
At the moment we do handbags.
And we actually we're quite focused on a niche market, 
a  high-end niche market, using exotic skins.
So we do Python, crocodile, ostrich, lizard, stingray,
but we're expanding into sort of the regular leather handbags
and we're exploring accessories as well.
Okay, so what exactly is your demographic then?
It's 30 and up. 
We- for exotic skins our price point is actually quite reasonable.
So we start around five, six hundred U.S. dollars
and goes up to about $2,000 
For what it is it's quite reasonably.
So we- Our customer base,
it's like thirties, forties, and a little bit of fifties.
Okay, and what is your business model then?
Well we actually, we want to build a brand,
so we're kinda in the traditional space.
So right now we sell through wholesale, retail, and e-commerce.
We're launched by Saks Fifth Avenue in the U.S. about two years ago. 
Right now we're selling in six countries.
Not in Korea yet. We would love to come to Korea.
Wow. Very cool. So where are you based in then right now?
I'm between Hong Kong and New York. 
So my production is in Hong Kong
which is quite interesting because people kind of-
people don't really think of Hong Kong as a manufacturing hub,
but we actually have some very skilled craftsmen here.
So they work very well with exotic skins.
They're actually better than the Italians
because I started my production in Italy.
So there are also some folks here
that are very good with jewelry and watches
so we still have like some of the kind of high-end, 
high-skill requirements manufacturing in Hong Kong but small scale.
And my showroom is in New York.
So that's why I'm kind of in between the two cities.
So I mean what makes you standout? 
What makes you different from other handbag companies?
Well in the fashion space I think a lot of it is design driven.
So what I do- My design is very timeless.
Because I feel like, you know, 
when you buy a piece of nice leather goods
it should be an investment.
So we pride ourselves on skin quality and on craftsmanship.
I am I guess more well-known- 
Even though we do both day and evening bags
I guess I'm more well-known for evening bags.
And I don't have one to show you today,
but it has a beautiful crystal, that's Swarovski, 
so the whole thing is very lux.
and I have a detachable chain that you can take off
and you can wear as a bracelet or necklace.
So we try to deliver like three products in one.
Very cool.
But you guys can check it out. 
My website is just JenniferMak. 
J-E-N-N-I-F-E-R-M-A-K, one word, dot com.
And you guys can check out the styles on my website.
Okay, well very cool. Well thank you so much for your time.
Thank you.

Alright, so go ahead and introduce yourself.
Hi, Michelle. My name is Jason Weeks.
I'm the co-founder of Vendorable, 
and we're a platform to find, compare, appoint,
and work with real estate agents.
I see. So can you explain more about your company?
Sure. So we help vendors.
They put up a real property sale,
and then we help them connect with agents.
Agents put in competitive tenders and proposals
in our platform, and then you, as an owner, 
get to choose the best one, the right agent for you,
and then you work in our workspace to sell your property.
Oh, wow. So what made you get started with this? 
So our- one of our co-founders, Harry Lehmann,
he was actually a property solictor,
and he had a whole bunch of issues dealing with agents
when he was doing the conveyances to the solictor.
So he came up with the idea, and he came to it- came to the-
you know- to me, in 2013, and said,
Hey, I've got this idea. Wanna try and work on it?
And we spent the whole of last year,
working on a marketable solution
for institutions to sell their property.
Ah, so what makes you guys so different?
Right. So, most people are either in the SAS property end,
so actually, they are working in the transaction space,
or the agent referral end.
So no one's actually- we're the first to market,
to do it end-to-end.
That's actually something that's key for us.
Because our front platform will work on data,
and the quality of that data,
we want the entire transaction, end-to-end, 
to take place in the platform.
Oh okay, cool. So then, what is your business model?
So, we're free for vendors- which is fantastic.
Free now, free forever.
So you want to put your property up, no problem - it's free.
On agent's commission, we charge 5% of their commission,
but only on a successful sale.
So for agents to sign up, it's free.
For agents to use the platform and bid, it's free.
Even if they're appointed, it's free.
So, only after a successful sale of the property
that we charge the commission. So it's a win-win.
Like, they have money in their pocket when we charge our fee.
Wow, okay. So what's your educational background? Is it-
Sorry?
What's your educational background?
Oh, right. So, I'm actually a Commerce graduate
from the University of Sydney.
I'm currently studying my MBA
at the University of New South Wales.
But, I was actually studying law as well,
I'm a law school dropout,
although my co-founder's a law school graduate.
So, I have a reasonable understanding of
contract and commercial law, as well, so.
Oh, okay. So then, how many people are on your team?
There's 6 of us at the moment.
So myself, along with Harry, Shane, Tom, Greg, and Paul.
And we're a pretty tight-knit bunch.
Most of us have known each other for quite a while.
Okay cool, and you're based out of Australia?
We are at the moment,
but we're currently expanding into the UK, US, and Canada.
So, we chose those markets
because they're the largest markets outside of Australia
that we can easily transition in to.
They operate similarly for our institutional vendors,
and they're where are clients are, overseas.
So, we're hoping.
Oh wow, very cool. Okay.

So, go ahead and introduce yourself and your company.
My name is Kielan and I am a developer for The Graduate.
And we are a tutoring marketplace, software as a service,
to connect students, tutors, and parents,
to create more efficient learning.
So, what made you want to start this?
I did not start this, but I'm one of the early developers.
And the reason I joined this is because 
I really do believe in education.
I believe in creating a smarter next generation,
and I think that its- we're able to do this,
by making education more efficient by democratizing education,
and allowing people to have the power to teach other people,
and people to have the advantage of simply being able to- 
if they want to learn something,
they just have a search bar for that, in the same way, 
if you want to know something, you go to Google.
We realized that a good teacher is irreplaceable,
and that's kind of what we go by.
Very cool. So how long have you guys been around?
We've been around since September of last year,
and we started out as, just a simple mar-
like a tutoring agency, and now we've kind of evolved and
kind of done some more to influence and
kind of make the process of learning frictionless.
And, kind of empower these students and also tutors.
So tell me about your educational background.
So, I started out in elementary school,
where I went to a Spanish emersion school,
and then I went to high school in Portland, Oregon.
So, from the West Coast, where there's a lot of tech startups,
and then I spent the last few years in Bangkok, Thailand,
as a developer, and then I joined this company,
because I really believe in their vision,
and I think that this is the next generation of education.
So what makes you guys stand out from other educational websites?
So, there's a lot of tutoring marketing websites,
and they're really just open websites,
so they end up getting in the way of what learning is.
Like tutors, they join, and then they try to take a commission.
Like a lot of these websites.
We don't do that, and we never will.
So, a lot of these tutoring agencies,
they take out a large commission,
the tutors don't make the amount of money that they deserve.
Teachers deserve to make
that amount of money that they're teaching for,
and that's why we want to create an open marketplace.
and it also creates a "winner-take-all" marketplace,
that these people have created,
and we match the right student with the right tutor.
So there is no "winners-take-all,"
we always get the right fit,
and it makes for a better economy.
We have the whole age range of K-12, college,
and even after college.
But most of our students end up being in high school,
students trying to get in to top-notch colleges and universities,
but really, we have the website where,
if you want to learn something, you go to our website
and you search what you want to learn, 
and then you find the teacher for that.
So how do you find these teachers?
 I mean, how do they sign up to become-
We've created multiple outreach programs where,
we have reached out to university students,
Masters degree students, who want to teach on the side,
to make money and we want to try- the full range of teachers,
on the low-end of the price spectrum,
to the top-notch teachers, so students can get what they pay for.
So let's go back then, to your business model.
So how is it that you are able to fund-
you know, you're not charging your students, right?
No, we will not charge the students.
Ok.
We will not take a commission, 
our business model is much different.
We actually are currently just gathering data.
We believe in growth, we're trying to get as many
connections between students and tutors as possible,
so we can analyze the relationship between the tutors and the students,
and create- and find out what their optimum relationship
for different types of people are.
So that people can learn the most,
in a efficient way.
And really love the things they are learning.
So why are you guys based in Hong Kong?
Hong Kong has a huge private education market
for tutoring and it's just a very small area,
that if- if we can revolutionize education here,
with this conservative focus on education,
we can do it anywhere in the world, so.
It's really just a good fit.
Cool okay, well is there anything else
you want your users to know about your company?
Just that we're releasing this week, so, version 2.0
Yeah.
Wow, okay. Thank you very much.
Yeah, thank you.
Thank you for your time.

All right, hi, can you introduce yourself 
and tell me about your service?
All right. So, my name is Karen, 
and I'm the CEO and co-founder of Pastel Dress Party. 
So basically, 
Pastel Dress Party is an online e-commerce platform 
serving the bridal party worldwide. 
So, basically, what we do is we realize that there's not a lot 
of customized and made-to-measure clothing 
outside of Southeast Asia, 
and we wanted to bring that option available to North Americans
or people in the state--sorry, people in Europe 
and people in Australia. 
So basically, that's what we're doing right now today.
But we're planning to expand our lineup business 
to overall bridal party attires. 
So that includes anything that you can think of,
shawls and like embellishments and purses 
and anything that you can think of when you, kind of, 
step out as a bridesmaid.
Yeah, so, what made you want to start this, 
and can you also like show us any examples?
Okay, so, I identified this problem 
when I was a bridesmaid for my sister's wedding, actually. 
I realized that, I live in Toronto myself, Toronto, Canada, 
and I realized that there is not such option that's affordable 
and is good and is made to measure 
for people that are outside of Hong Kong or Southeast Asia. 
So that's why we wanted to bring this to people outside.
All right, very nice.
So I can show you a little bit about how we shop. 
So right now, these are all the styles that we have. 
And then, once you have selected the dress, 
you can actually go and pick out a color, let's say dusty plum, 
and then you order it. And that's, 
that brings you to a place 
where you can input your measurements. 
And we have videos to teach you how to measure yourself.
Very cool. And, you know, 
how many users do you have right now?
We've already served a thousand brides worldwide, 
so we're profitable, and we're on Year 2 of our business.
Very cool, well, congratulations.
Thank you so much.
Thank you. All right.
Thanks.

All right, hi, can you introduce yourself and what you're doing here?
Yes. My name is Libby Wendling. 
I'm from Cellarmaster Wines, which is a, 
we distribute premium wine, beers, ciders, 
direct to consumers in Hong Kong. 
And specifically, I work with the digital marketing department, 
and currently, I am focusing on demand generation, 
customer acquisition, EDMs, and event coordination.
Great. So, what do you guys do exactly with the wine in distribution?
So we get our wines and spirits from all around the world. 
And our primary focus is 
people who live in Hong Kong as consumers. 
And we do deliveries direct to doors and offices, 
and free delivery for people 
who purchase 800 Hong Kong dollars or more.
All right, so where do you get your wines from? 
How do you make, do you partner with people all over the world?
We do. We have great partnerships and relationships 
with wineries around the world. 
I mean, we get them from Australia, California, France, Italy, 
anywhere pretty much.
All right. So what's the process, 
like how does one order the wine?
So, we are an online e-commerce platform. 
And right now, we only have a website, 
but we are working on an app to use in the future, 
and once you just log in and create a sign-up and account, 
you can just go online, order anything, look at everything 
that we have. And if you are logged, a member, 
you can get promotion pieces from us, 
so we'll send out the EDMs. 
And that's a great tool for us, 
because that's how we draw in more customers, 
because we target exactly the deals 
that we have going on and all for the most competitive price.
So tell me about your team. Where is your office, 
and how many of them are there?
So I work in Wan Chai. We have an office, 
there's about 19 people total. 
In the digital marketing department, there's about 5 of us. 
And we have a digital designer, and there's two of us 
who focus primarily on the events and looking at the stats 
and how we're going to drive consumer awareness and whatnot.
What's your background, 
and what made you want to come out here?
I studied finance and marketing, and I've always had, 
or wanted to really go into a marketing field, 
because I love the creative side and the upbeatness 
that marketing can provide. 
So, my next step was to come to Hong Kong 
and try to get a feel for the environment here 
and see where it takes me next.
All right, well thanks for your time.
Thank you. Of course.

Can you introduce yourself and what you're doing here?
Yes. My name is Rebecca. 
I'm with Trusted Company. 
Basically, we're an online review platform. 
So online shoppers can look up for reviews on where to shop, 
compare, and make a buying decision 
based on the reviews that they find. 
And we're also a solution for merchants on the other end. 
We help them actively collect reviews, 
basically by sending us triggers, 
like order confirmation emails, 
so we can send out an email blast to their customers. 
And we also provide them with visuals to place on their site 
so they can convert more traffic 
based on the trust that we give, for our seal, 
and being a third party for reviews. 
So what kind of reviews are they for?
It's the whole experience, from coming into the shop, 
browsing, to finalizing a purchase 
and actually receiving your order if it is a physical product.
Some people, like, if it's a brand, the shop is a brand, 
then you could talk about the product itself as well, 
but it's mainly the full experience.
So what kind of websites do you work with?
Sorry?
What kind of websites do you work with?
So mainly e-commerce. Anything that sells online.
"- So like Amazon, eBay, all of those kind of thing?
- Yeah."
Basically, we're based in Malaysia, 
so it's Southeast Asian companies. Indonesia, Malaysia. 
Our main markets actually are in India and Brazil 
even though we're in Malaysia, so. All across the board. 
Anyone who sells online.
And how big is your team, and how did you get involved?
So, we're around 25-30 people. 
We have two offices, one in S o Paulo, and one in Malaysia. 
I came to be part of the company like a year and a half ago. 
My husband and I traveled here for him. 
It was a, you know, business opportunity for himself. 
I found the job with Trusted Company, signed on, 
and here I am.
So what's your educational background 
and professional background? How did you get in...?
My educational background. 
I was actually a concert pianist before. 
So nothing to do with e-commerce. 
Yeah. Completely different. 
But right now, my position in the company 
is customer success manager. 
So I basically help on the business side. 
People to get onboarded. 
What's the best way to tailor the solution for them. 
How to send out the email blast 
in the most effective way for a good response rate, etc.
And where did you come from?
Where, I'm from Toronto originally. So.
All right, well, thanks a lot, and good luck.
Thanks.

Alright. Can you introduce yourself
and talk about what you're doing here?
Yep. So my name is Sean Fee.
I'm the CEO and co-founder of a startup called Player.me.
And what we do is we have a social discovery platform
for the video gaming community 
to connect, discover, share content.
and find new games, or find new teammates
for their gaming.
So how do you do that?
Basically what they do is,
They'll sign up to the site,
they connect up to their Twitter, Facebook,
Youtube, Twitch, PSN, Steam, Xbox Live,
and we pull in a load of data
around what they enjoy playing,
and then they can meet other players
who are similar to them on our feed.
Or they can talk about gaming,
or they can, you know, like games. 
They can add games to their games library
and stuff like that.
Alright what's the history behind this?
What made you want to start this?
So, me and my co-founder, we got started about 17 months ago.
We were actual on a tropical island in Thailand, 
called Koh Samui.
We were working on another startup,
but we weren't that passionate about the product.
But we both love gaming, 
and we felt that there was-
the time was right to have a social platform
that was 100% dedicated to the gaming community
because it is massive,
and it really does deserve its own dedicated platform.
Are you a gamer as well?
I'm a casual gamer, 
and he's a hardcore gamer,
so he's the one who kind of knows 
what we should be doing in the pro segment
and I'm the one who knows what we should be doing
to attract the casual gamers so.
And what's your history?
I mean what's your professional and educational background?
So, I was an investment banker initially.
I've studied finance and economics and stuff like that.
And this is my third startup.
My co-founder is the technical, he's CTO.
So we have really nice complimentary skills.
I take care of the business development, 
the marketing strategy, business strategy kind of stuff,
and he takes care of making sure we have
an awesome, kick-ass product.
Alright, and is it just you two? 
Or do you you have a bigger team? \NWe have a team of five now,
so we brought in three other devs
who are helping out on the back-end and front-end stuff.
And yeah, we're pretty small. We're bootstrapped,
but we're doing well.
I was going to ask your revenue model,
but I guess, like you said you're bootstrapped.
We're bootstrapped, but in terms of revenue
we're looking at doing a player-to-player marketplace.
Where virtual items can be traded for cash,
and we'll have commission on that.
And at the same time we're also working on
building our own advertising platform
fairly similar to Facebook.
Where game companies or- Whether it's game developers
or peripheral developers
they can come on and they can target
players that are very interested in
their type of product,
and hopefully get a very high click-through rate,
high download rate,
and add some value for them and the player.
Yeah, how many users do you have right now?
We launched it publicly about two months ago,
and we have over 80,000 users at the moment,
and 175 countries around the world so...
In two months? How did you do that?
Yeah, we were in private B2B before that for awhile so...
we basically, we over doubled our user base
as soon as we launched.
So we've grown pretty aggressively over the past two months,
and it was just word-of-mouth.
We've basically spent no money
on like $2,500 on marketing over the last 17 months.
And we have some high profile players
who are Youtubers or Twitch streamers
who are using the site at the moment. 
And they kind of promote it to their fan base
and everyone shares it,
so it's getting quite a bit of adoption.
That's pretty amazing. 

Alright, hi can you introduce yourself
and what you're doing here?
Okay so I'm Stewart.
I'm CEO and founder of Weestay.
Exhibiting at Rise in Hong Kong.
So, Weestay is a travel app
aimed at helping people find free accommodation
with their friends on friends of friends.
So for example, let's say you're traveling to Dublin,
maybe you're going to the Web Summit in November.
You tell the app you're going to Dublin,
you put in your deets.
The app will send your friends 
on friends of friends a notification.
They can then open that and offer you accommodation
or swipe it away.
Very cool. So it's like Couchsurfing and Airbnb.
It's somewhere in between them, yeah.
It's like a rent-free Airbnb, 
closed network Couchsurfing.
Yeah because not everyone's ready for Couchsurfing.
I personally think it's really cool,
and have used it.
But yeah there's a huge portion of people 
who don't really like it 
or wouldn't go there.
So we used it as a good stepping stone.
So what's the history behind this?
You know why did you want to start this and
what's the team behind it like?
Okay so the history,
I've been in Hong Kong for 7 years.
I'm originally from Ireland.
My first few years, 
I found it difficult to encourage my friends
to come to Hong Kong and stay.
And I started trying to work out why.
To make that possible 
you would jump on Facebook and email a bunch of people
so it's just really hard to do.
So that's when I tried start working on a solution.
And one of the hurdles was to remove 
the cost of accommodation,
and that's basically how Weestay happened, yeah.
What's your background?
Okay so, grew up in Ireland,
went to university there.
Moved to Hong Kong when I was 23,
and I've been here for nearly 7 years so
so almost a permanent resident here.
Very nice.
And how many people do you have working for you,
and can you describe them a little bit?
Actually today, it's just me.
Yeah, so short the answer to that question is
one person, yeah.
I did computer science at university.
That's my background.
So you do everything.
Can you talk about all the tasks and roles that you do?
Yeah, wow it's late in the day,
but let me try to go over them.
So, obviously the development is one thing.
The branding is another thing, financials, admin.
And everyone's here trying to talk to investors so
that information has to be pretty good.
There's a lot of things to look at, yeah.
Very cool.

All right. Hello everybody. Nice to meet you all today.
My name is Jason Waller. Also known as, Pinnacle TheHustler,
and this is my self-introduction.
I'm just kidding. I'm really not that corny.
All right let's go ahead and start.
Where I'm from is Cincinnati, Ohio, in the United States of America.
This is the skyline to Cincinnati,
and I think it's quite a beautiful place,
so if you ever get a chance to go, you should go.
My educational background is...
I went to the University of Cincinnati.
And at the University of Cincinnati, my major was criminal justice,
and my minor was paralegal.
And I have a Bachelors of Science in these fields here.
Hobbies...
This is a very special topic for me because
I'm very very busy.
I got a lot of stuff going on,
and I feel like everybody needs to have some kind of hobby.
So, my favorite thing to do when I'm not working is eating.
Okay, I don't know about you, but this is what I love to do.
A bad experience that has helped to shape me...
Well, I ride a motorcycle,
and on that motorcycle I've been in a few accidents.
And it's pretty messed up.
The worst thing about it is none of these accidents were my fault.
So, what it helped me to do
was gain a different perspective on life,
and understand that I need to-
in order to not have these accidents,
in order to not run into these negative things,
I need to rely on my peripherals.
I need to be able to see things that are around me,
and pay attention to the other people that are around me.
And realize that I am not totally in control.
So, having these motorcycle accidents
has definitely given me a different perspective on the road,
and more importantly on the road of life.
A strength that differentiates me...
Well, quite frankly is, no fear.
I think it kind of relates to what I said earlier about
something that has happened
to change my perspective.
You have to go through life with no fear.
It's like going through an intersection on a motorcycle,
you know that something might come out,
and something might not come out, and hit you.
But you just have to be conscious,
and be prepared, and just keep going.
All right. Like this guy right here.
He has no fear. Okay.
You need to be like this white guy with chicken.
All right. Have no fear.
All right. My first job actually was at a-
I was a cashier at Kroger Grocery Store,
back in Cincinnati.
And it wasn't awesome.
Actually it was not a great experience because
people were really rude.
But it was a fun job,
other than the rude people.
And the current industry that I work in,
is entertainment. And I love my job.
I work as a DJ.
I also work as a hip-hop artist and performer.
And I'm also a party promoter and event marketer.
So, these are the main things that I do, and
you know, it's tough.
It's a tough job.
Being around girls and alcohol all the time,
and playing music.
It's rough guys. It's rough.
Okay. Thank you everybody.

Hi everybody my name is Jason Waller.
I'm the Founder and CEO of Planet Hustle, LLC.
Planet Hustle is an entertainment company that started in America
and was just recently registered in Seoul, South Korea.
Now, quick summary of what we're going to talk about today
and what it is that we're doing.
Planet Hustle, we have 3 primary streams of revenue.
These streams of revenue are event product marketing,
artist booking, and artist management.
Now what we do is we have a very strong network
that we utilize in America
and we couple that, of course,
with our in-depth knowledge of the Korean,
not just the market, but the market on street level,
as far as entertainment goes,
because there are very subtle changes in trend
and the way that people move
and you have to be in tune to that
on a street level to understand what it is that the people want.
And we definitely have an in-depth knowledge of that.
And furthermore, the professional services that we use
to provide the Korean market with quality performers
that they don't usually see,
but more importantly,
at a price that everybody can afford.
Now, doing all of this has put us in a lane of our own.
Simply put, we're able to provide what people want,
and as of right now,
we have no competition.
Here's a closer look on some of the things that we do.
First of all, we have event marketing.
Now, these are a few of the events
that we've done over the past year.
We've had Neil Armstrong,
who's Jay-Z's former DJ.
We had DJ Symphony,
who was a Wu Tang Clan DJ.
We've had DJ Baby Drew, Chris Brown's DJ,
and we had DJ Premier.
If you're at all familiar with hiphop,
you know that Premier is absolutely legenday
when it comes to hiphop culture.
These are just a few of the DJs
that we've brought through the events that we've marketed.
And just to give you a quick breakdown
of how successful we've been, we started off last year,
March 2014, with Mo Beats, who's Big Sean's DJ.
And we brought in about around 500 people.
But as you can see,
from March's start to where we were towards the end of 2014,
we grew exponentially.
Unfortunately, we started hitting the cold season
in January and February,
and our numbers did drop a little bit,
but we just recently had an event with DJ Drama back in May,
and our numbers are starting to return back to normal.
This is pretty consistent for us.
Every time we have an event, we usually, not usually,
we always make sure we put on a good show.
The clients are happy,
the sponsors are happy,
the DJs are happy,
which makes us happy.
Now, given another perspective of our events
that we've had over the past year,
a few of our statistics.
Number 1, we've had absolutely no cancelled events.
Cancelled events are absolutely devastating,
both to, not both, but to all of the parties involved,
to the clubs, to the artists, to us as the company,
to our sponsors, to the audience that's coming to the event.
We cannot afford to have any event cancellations,
so at Planet Hustle,
we work very very hard to alleviate any and all problems
that would most likely arise
during this process of booking the event or marketing this event.
Furthermore, we have a 100% success rate.
Now, of course,
zero event cancellations does factor into the success rate,
but also the satisfaction of everybody
that is involved in this event,
whether it be the clubs, the clients, that, the DJs,
the arists, the audience, people that are coming,
our sponsors, everybody that's involved.
We need to make sure
that their satisfaction is absolutely guaranteed.
Nobody should walk away feeling
like they got less than what they paid for.
Especially the DJs.
When the DJs are coming in to this country and we're hosting them,
they need to leave the country with a smile on their face,
knowing that they were taken care of
and that they were paid right,
because of course,
our business is very much based on referral and reputation.
We can't afford to mess that up at all.
Furthermore, our social media imprints today
have soared well past a million.
Actually, I haven't even counted recently,
but I know it's past a million.
And, this is something that we're very very proud of.
We put a lot of work into marketing,
both online and offline.
And we'll talk more about offline marketing soon.
Furthermore, this past year,
we broke two sales records.
And this is very important for us
because we're an independently-run company,
so for us to walk into a club and say,
okay, this is the record
that you've set as an established business
that has multiple investors.
It has so much pull, and all these people that are involved,
we come in and we break your sales record.
That is an amazing feat for Planet Hustle.
Last year, at Club Opium, on July 4th weekend,
we broke their sales record,
and then later on that year at Club Lucidream,
excuse me, August 31st, we broke another sales record.
We're planning on breaking a few more this year.
Now, I talked about offline promoting.
This is very, very important.
This is crucial, if anything,
because so much of our culture now is driven online.
You see people at coffee shops, instead of talking,
they're all texting. Right?
People spend more time interacting in a face-to-face communication,
they spend more time online on Facebook
than they do talking to each other.
But, regardless of that, you cannot.
You can not replace going up to somebody,
talking to them face to face, handing them something,
whether it be a promotional sticker,
whether it's a flyer,
whether it's a wristband,
whether it's a free ticket,
whether it's a T-shirt,
saying "Come to this event,
because I know that you're going to enjoy it."
Because it breaks what we've been used to. All right?
Going against the grain is something
that has been in Marketing 101 since the beginning of time.
And these are some of the ways that we do it.
And not just marketing before the event, but post-marketing after,
posting pictures, posting videos,
tagging people that you've seen in these pictures.
A lot of the post-marketing is online,
but it starts offline.
And this is something that we do very,
very well.
Another aspect of Planet Hustle is artist booking.
Now, with the, with all this booking,
we actually take more of a backseat role.
If the client, the venue, or the club,
if they decide that they want to do more
with their own marketing and their own promotional services,
that's completely okay.
We can do that.
We'll secure everything that you need us to do
so that you can focus on your job to market and promote the event.
These are a few of the events
that we've booked for other clients around our area, and again,
all of them have been successful.
The client has been happy,
the artist has been happy,
the crowd was definitely happy,
which makes us happy.
These are a few of the brands that, the companies,
I should say.
The Korean companies and brands that we've worked with.
We've worked with quite a few.
This isn't a comprehensive list,
but these are a few of the people that we have worked with,
and these are some of the Korean artists and DJs
that we've worked with as well.
We find it is very very important
to really get involved in the local market
as well as international market,
because as I stated in the executive summary,
we have to be in tune to the ebbs and flows of the trends.
How are things moving?
Why are they moving in this direction?
How can we predict what's going to happen next?
If you can predict it, and you can successfully predict it,
then you can make sure you have a smash event
when the time is right.
Furthermore, these are some of the foreign artists
that we've worked with.
Artists and DJs that we've brought over from the states
to our area to have these events.
And, I mean, these are some pretty big names.
I mean, these go from, you know,
all the way from Big Sean's DJ to DJ Premier.
Recently, like I said,
we had DJ Drama.
I mean, these are names that people don't usually see,
in our market.
So for us to actually be the forerunner
and bring aritsts like this on a consistent basis,
it's not just good for us,
but it's good for the market,
and it's good for the people that have invested in the market.
Speaking of investment,
the next thing that we want to do
is we want to take this to another level.
So far, we've been doing a lot of club events.
You know, that's pretty much been it.
It's been a lot of club events and smaller venues.
The biggest club that we've had has held 750 people
and we actually maxxed that out
and brought in about 3 to 400 more people,
not at the same time but throughout the night.
But the point is, we're getting too big for these clubs.
And it's time for us to step up,
and the only thing that's really holding us back is budget.
So, what I'd like to do is present an opportunity
that is a little bit atypical for typical investors,
but is more beneficial,
because you get your return back a lot quicker.
And it's a very, very simple process.
So far, we have demonstrated
our ability to choose the right artists, to choose the right DJs,
to choose the right performers that work well with this demographic.
So if you can invest that trust in us,
then these are the steps
that you need to take in order to make more money.
Sent us a concert investment,
we'll do everything.
We'll plan it, we'll produce it, we'll promote the event,
and it will be a success.
And then we'll take the revenue,
we'll pay your investment back.
On top of the investment that we pay back,
whatever that percentage is that we agree on,
you'll get that as well.
A very simple process,
and you get about a 3 to 4 month turnaround.
I think that's better
than investing in a company and waiting 5 or 6 years
for your money to come back.
So, we hope this is something
that is of interest to you because obviously,
it's of interest to us.
This is something that we do day in and day out,
and we really don't have very many off days,
so if you really want to make money,
then let us work to make you money.
Thank you.

Hello, my name is Matthew Martin
Some people call me MG.
This is my little dog who, Ihu, full name is actually Kaimana-Ihu
Which, whoa! What does that mean?
It actually means diamond nose in Hawaiian.
We call her diamond nose because she's always looking for trash
and we wish she was looking for diamonds instead.
So why does my dog have a Hawaiian name?
Because I am originally from Hawaii. I m from the Big Island of Hawaii.
I grew up in a small town called Waimea.
It's a cattle ranching town, cowboy town.
It s not your typical vision of Hawaii.
It doesn't look like this at all.
Although this is very close by.
After I graduated from high school, I moved to California
to a town called San Francisco.
I went to university here at San Francisco State University.
I studied creative writing.
More specifically I studied poetry.
That has continued to be a passion of mine.
While I was in San Francisco I actually published my first book of poems
which was a wonderful experience, 
and then I toured up and down this West Coast.
Going up to Portland, Oregon, all the way down to San Diego, California,
promoting my book which was wonderful.
Along with poetry and writing I also like to play music.
I've been playing music pretty much my whole life.
I kind of come from like, the Hawaiian Partridge Family.
My father is musician and my little brother is a musician.
He's actually a professional musician now.
We grew up playing together.
My dad got us on stage at a young age
and we played together all through high school.
And then as I went off to university and moved on,
my dad and my brother continued to play together.
I play guitar as you see here. I play a little piano.
I can play the melodica.
Bass is my number one instrument.
I make beats, and I can beat box as well.
So generally I love the arts.
Weakness...
I am a real go-getter, so sometimes I have a little trouble
working with other people, more so with listening
I think that a lot of people, especially men,
have problems listening to other people,
but I've really been trying to work on that in my professional career.
A little short story that is kind of related to this ball and chain type of thing,
I worked for- in New York City actually after I lived in San Francisco,
I moved to New York City for a few years,
and I worked in real estate for a short time, and I was fired.
The only time I've ever been fired because I left my cell phone in a taxi cab,
and on a Friday night, and my job was strictly 9-5,
Monday through Friday, no weekend work.
But my boss was calling me all weekend,
thought I was ignoring him, and I showed up to work on Monday
and he fired me on the spot.
So, that taught me to definitely keep my ears open
and listen to where other people are coming from
and be open to change and adaptability and flexibility
because you never know what's gonna happen in the professional world.
One of my strengths is I- sometimes can turn into a small rodent
and bench press a lot of weight... just kidding.
I'm definitely a people person. I'm an entertainer.
I love to be around people. I love to work with people.
I love to be on stage. I love to make people laugh and smile.
I'm a real people pleaser,
and I don't need to be motivated. I'm naturally motivated.
It's all comes from within. I'm sure comes from within you as well.
Career...right now I'm a freelance writer.
I write many different types of articles.
I write travel articles. I do a lot of traveling.
I've been to 30 countries now.
In my time I do food writing
and of course I mentioned earlier that I am a published poet,
so sometimes I'm lucky enough to have poems published
and get paid for those, very small amounts of money.
And yeah, any kind of writing job that I can get I'll do.
I also do tutoring. I'll tutor creative writing as well.
Pretty much just trying to use letters, words, punctuation in any way I can
to get money, pay my rent, stay housed, feed my dog, feed my fianc ,
feed myself, and stay off the streets.
So my name again as Matthew Martin.
You can go buy my book "One for None," by MG Martin on Amazon.
And read it let me know what you think.
Have a nice day everyone.

Hi, so I'm Nathan Millard
and I'm just going to tell you a little bit about myself.
So, as you might be able to tell from my accent,
I'm from the UK.
I was born in this beautiful town in Scotland, called Perth.
Obviously not Perth, Australia.
But at a fairly young age I moved to the South of England
and grew up really near London.
And in London I went for both my undergraduate
and post-graduate degree.
I studied history, for undergraduate degree.
And after a few years off,
I really wanted to go back to university again.
I did quite a bit of drinking during my undergraduate degree
and wanted to do some study.
So, I went back and studied politics.
And yeah, so my first work experience was 
when I was really quite young.
When I was about 5... sorry not 5, 15 years old.
I was helping my father
working for the princely sum of 5 pounds a day,
which works out at about $7.50, for a full day's work.
So I started quite early.
And once I graduated I got into a nice insurance job.
Which I quickly became quite bored of,
and just felt the need to get out and see the world.
So I did quite a bit of studying, quite a bit of traveling.
I spent some time in the US. as a child.
I've also spent some time in Morocco as a teenager
which was quite an interesting experience going overseas
for the first time, experiencing a new culture.
And once I'd become bored with this insurance job
I thought, "Okay, I want to do something completely different."
So, I bought a ticket, and traveled over to Asia.
And twelve years later, I'm still here.
So, current hobbies and interests.
Right now I'm building my own business,
and really that takes almost all of my time,
both professional and in my private life.
I used to be quite a socialite, but now that I'm married
and I've got my own business
my life is really split between my business and my wife.
As you can see here, "Happy wife, happy life."
Very true. If you've got a wife, look after her.
So, couple of words on what I think my strengths and weaknesses are.
So when I was at university I was quite a shy person.
I hated presenting in front of people.
I was never sure what to say, always stumbled,
and in fact, I even missed classes where I had to present in public.
So this is something that I've really tried
to work on in my professional life.
I think that speaking publicly is very important,
so it's something that I've really tried to work on.
And hopefully, I'm doing an okay job now.
So to overcome this weakness,
I think the best thing to do is just to plunge in,
and face your fear.
So, the first time I spoke publicly was at a major conference,
and I was interviewing one of the major investors from Silicon Valley.
A guy called Jeff Clavier, from SoftTech VC.
Incredibly daunting.
Here's a guy with a very successful career behind him,
and here's me right at the very beginning of my career.
So I stumbled through it,
and at the end of it I- it hadn't gone very well,
but at least I'd done it.
And really since then I've been speaking in public quite a bit,
and now it's something I really quite enjoy.
I think one of my strengths is my ability to communicate with people.
I think that both in your private and professional life
it's very important to communicate.
And I think that the success of your career and personal relationships
really are very much built on the human networks you have.
I think I've realized this from a very early stage,
and it's something I've always continued to work on.
So, building relationships with people
you really value, you trust, you like,
and you never know where these people could help you in the future,
regardless of whether it's in your professional or private life.
An important lesson is something-
Obviously I've learned many important lessons through my life,
but to talk about something very current,
as I said, I was building- I'm currently building my own business,
and just a couple of weeks ago our biggest client dumped us.
Now they accounted for almost half of our monthly revenue,
and it's a client that we'd signed an annual contract with.
Now thankfully things are getting back on track with them.
But this really taught me a very important lesson,
that even though you've signed a contract,
even though you think that things are set in stone,
you never know when things can change
very dramatically and very quickly.
So I think that expecting the best
but being prepared for the worst
is a very good way of looking at life
and directing the, you know, your life
both in personal and business situations.

Okay, hi.
My name is Nathan Millard,
and I'm going to tell you a little bit about my business,
which I founded just five months ago,
so it's a very fresh business.
I guess, going back a little bit further,
it'll be useful for you to understand what I did before,
which led into this,
why I took this crazy step to start up my own company.
So for the last 2 and a half years,
I've been working with local startups as a writer, actually,
and I built up a good base of knowledge
about the local startup ecosystem as well as honed my writing skills,
and also built a regional and global press network,
and I realized that startups,
while they might be building amazing technology,
they're often, these companies are often built by developers
who are perhaps not the best people to communicate.
They're often a little bit awkward,
and in communicating beyond their company,
and certainly beyond their domestic borders.
So I founded this company, G3 Partners,
to help solve this problem for entrepreneurs
and to help them communicate through PR.
So, what exactly is PR?
PR is really a method
for establishing and maintaining goodwill with the public,
between the public and your company.
So our job, really,
is to take your amazing story
and deliver it effectively to the outside world.
So this is what we do, day to day,
we work with many startups,
"helping them to communicate more effectively 
"
both regionally and across the world.
So why do startups need PR? Obviously,
huge corporations like Samsung, Google, Apple,
these huge companies have big PR budgets.
They're in the news all the time.
Many startups might ask, well,
why do I need PR? I'm just a tiny little startup, you know,
I've only got a few thousand users, whatever it is.
We've only been around for a couple of years.
But I personally think
that every company needs to think about PR
from a fairly early stage, because you can really help
to manage your reputation with the public.
It can help to build partnerships.
It can help you raise investment.
It's just useful for building general trust in the public as well.
It also can be a lot cheaper than advertising.
With advertising, there's set costs,
whereas with PR,
if you've got a great feature in the Wall Street Journal,
it can have a huge impact for fairly low cost.
And another question startups often ask me is, okay, so,
I understand what PR is now.
When do I actually need it?
Well, this you have to be a little bit more careful with.
If you are releasing a technology product,
for example, in the App Store, and you do a huge press push,
and you get lots of coverage,
and then you release your product and it doesn't work,
then the backlash from that
could actually have a very damaging effect
on the reputation of your business.
So, I would say the first time you really want to do PR is
when your product has launched
and it's also working as it should do.
You want to avoid that negative backlash.
But then, beyond that,
there's many points in your company's development
where PR can be very useful.
You might want to highlight a recent funding announcement you got.
Maybe you're releasing a new update to your service
and you want to let the public know about it.
Maybe you're entering a new market.
So there's many times when PR can be very useful
throughout the growth of your company.
So, I'll give you a little example
of one of the companies we've worked with.
It's a company called Zikto.
Now, they launched a crowdfunding campaign on Kickstarter.
It's a company based in Asia, and they wanted to, you know,
raise money from a global crowdfunding platform, Kickstarter.
So we helped them get an article placed
about their company on VentureBeat,
which is a major technology publication in the US.
And this actually had a huge effect on their crowdfunding campaign.
I think we can maybe assume
that the direct result of that campaign
led to tens of thousands of dollars of extra funding
as contributions for their campaign.
So this is just one example,
when actually only one article had
really quite a big impact on a company in the US
that wasn't even based in the US.
So, people ask us what our services are.
People ask us, you know,
do you do social media,
do you do marketing,
advertising, PR.
At the moment,
we're still a very early-stage company ourselves,
and I think it's very important to focus on what you're really good at,
and get that nailed down first
before you move in to other areas of business.
So what we do is really pure PR.
We help companies get placements in publications,
mostly online publications.
I'm sure that some of you have heard of
TechCrunch or VentureBeat, Mashable.
These are all popular publications for startups to get featured in.
We've also helped startups get featured
in major international publications
like Forbes, Reuters, Wall Street Journal.
So this is what I would call pure PR.
So, the next part,
I'd like to give you some free tips.
OK? Everybody loves free tips.
The companies that we're working with,
they always want to get something for free,
and I think that a good way of building trust,
doing PR for our company,
is to also give a little bit back.
So, the next couple of slides,
we're going to go over a few free tips for you.
So here's 10 free tips.
Now, I'm not going to go through all of these right now.
But if you're really smart,
you can pause the video now
and pick these up and do some research yourself,
and if you have any questions,
my email address is at the end,
so you can get in touch with me to ask questions.
So there you go,
there's your 10 free tips.
And moving swiftly on,
I will, when we start working with a new client,
I often start with a boiler plate.
It's something that we can produce really quite easily.
It's something that has a huge range of uses.
And it's something that could be really quite powerful,
and it doesn't cost a lot of money.
You can probably even build one yourself.
So a boilerplate, really,
is a 4 or 5 sentence introduction about your company.
It'll go through the basics.
So, where were you founded,
where are you based,
what is your service,
who are your target clients,
and maybe one or two major milestones.
And an easy way of building a boiler plate,
if you do a Google search,
you can find loads of resources for building a boiler plate.
And I personally don't believe
that you need to be a professional writer to produce this.
It's really just a few sentences
which gives a snapshot of your company.
And, as you can see here,
it can be used in many many different situations across the web.
You can use it in introduction emails
when you're reaching out to writers.
Maybe if you're introducing your company
to a potential partner.
You can use it on LinkedIn, TechCrunch, you know,
many platforms online as well.
Just a simple piece of text that introduces your company.
Social media is another way you can get free PR.
There's quite a blur now between PR and marketing,
and this is mainly because of social media.
Social media is kind of stuck in the middle.
You're engaging very directly with the community,
which sounds like PR.
But at the same time,
it's a platform where you can also advertise.
So that's where the crossover is into marketing.
But building a social media presence can have
a great effect on the reputation of your company.
You can build relationships directly with your users and,
if you get very successful with social media,
it can have a great impact on your company,
and it's something that can last for forever.
You can continue building your community.
And it doesn't need to cost a lot of money.
And the final tip for today that I'll go through is content marketing.
Again, this is something
that I think every company should get involved in.
It's something that you don't need to pay me for.
You can do it yourselves and, to be honest, I think you should be.
If you're building a company,
it's quite easy to set up a company blog,
and even if it's just one short piece once a week,
for example, about what you're doing, you know,
what you're working on.
Maybe you're working on a big project.
Maybe you're building up to a new service update.
People like to know what companies are doing,
especially for writers.
Often they'll go to the company blog
to get information about your company.
And again, it's free.
The more you do it,
the better you'll get at it,
and the more valuable your company blog will be,
the better you'll become at writing,
the more resources will be out there.
If you run a very good company blog,
it can even get picked up in search engines and become, you know,
it can help to drive traffic back to your website as well.
So, that's a very brief introduction of G3 Partners.
Hopefully, you've taken some value from the tips I've given you.
If you are a startup, and you're looking for some PR,
you want to find out more about what PR is or how we can help you,
do feel free to get in touch.
You can also find me on Twitter and Facebook.
Thank you.

Hi, could you introduce yourself?
Sure, my name is Pinnacle TheHustler.
My real name is Jason Waller,
but most people know me as Pinnacle TheHustler.
Will you tell me a little bit about the name, Pinnacle TheHustler?
Yeah, sure.
The word, "pinnacle" means the highest point,
like that tip of the mountain.
And,
I feel like in any category that you're in,
whatever it is you're striving to be,
you should work to be the pinnacle of that field.
So, whether you're trying to be the best father, or,
you know, the best doctor, or, you know,
even the best car mechanic, whatever.
You should be the best at that.
If you're a dishwashing repairman, you should be
the best dishwashing repairman you could be
So, the word "Pinnacle" just basically means
strive to be the best
and on top of it, "TheHustler" is just simply what I do.
Everyday, I'm working hard, I'm striving to achieve goals,
I'm striving to make other people better and really,
the only people I keep around me are other hustlers, so,
you know, it's more than just a name or a moniker,
it's a lifestyle.
Great, and can you tell me a little bit about your business?
Sure.
The name of the company is Planet Hustle.
And, we focus on three primary things -
which is, product and event marketing,
international artist booking,
and artist management.
And what kind of products do you market?
Really, anything that relates to what we're doing,
either as a company, or if it's somebody under the company.
Right? Like, for example,
if there's a new piece of DJ equipment
that someone wants us to try out,
or someone wants to market for them,
then, it's gotta be some equipment that I'm actually gonna use.
Like, if it's something that nobody would ever use,
or it's just a terrible concept,
the money doesn't matter, it's really the brand value
and how it relates to our brand, to see if that works.
So,
as far as what kind of products,
as long as it's something that's in relation to what we're doing,
to, you know, something music related or,
usually something within hip-hop or,
even if it's like a liquor company or a clothing brand or,
or, like I said, a new piece of equipment,
stuff like that, those are the types of products that we market.
And obviously, there's event marketing.
We do a lot of parties and special events,
sometimes private parties and things like that, so.
And do you market artists themselves?
We do, do some artist marketing, as far as services go.
but mainly, the artist marketing is usually when we are managing certain artists
like you know, we have some models on the team,
and you know, photographers, DJs, stuff like that and,
we help them with their marketing,
because that's a consistent, ongoing process.
When it comes to an artist that we are just booking,
say we're bringing someone from America,
we'll market that artist around the event.
Right? Or around whatever it is they are-
whatever we're bringing them for.
But that marketing has a start point and an end point.
So, you're an artist yourself.
Right.
Do you do more in the promotions and marketing,
or do you do more performing, or a little bit of both?
You know, actually, that's the beautiful thing
about being an artist and a CEO.
Everything you does- everything you does-
clearly I'm not an English teacher anymore.
Everything that you do,
it's all kind of cycles and ties in to each other, so,
when I'm performing, I'm marketing as well.
And when I'm marketing,
that's really just a spring board to find more performances,
does that make sense?
Yes.
so everything - it's like, every time I'm doing one thing,
it relates to the other.
What made you want to work in this industry?
The first time I ever performed.
Which was- I was like 15 or 16.
And, it was the first time I'd ever performed a song,
it was a friend of mine's high school
and I was- I think it was like the
most nervous I've ever been in my life.
Actually, I was so scared to perform,
that right before the curtains open,
I had made the decision to just drop the mix and walk away.
Cause I was backstage, the curtains were closed,
and I was back there, just shaking,
and I was like, "Ah, I can't do it.
I can't do it, I'm going home. Not gonna do it."
And then all of a sudden, right before I took that first step,
Boom! The curtains open, and I just saw these two big spotlights on me,
it was like I was looking at a huge car, at night.
Right, these two big headlights.
And, all of a sudden, I heard this voice start rapping
and it took me about a second to realize that voice was me.
And, something came over me and I just,
it's like I turn into a different person on stage.
And, after I finished that performance, the whole crowd,
the entire audience, gave me a standing ovation.
And I will never forget that experience and that feeling.
And that was the day that I decided
that I wanted to do this for as long as I can.
And so,
that was really that defining moment
that made me realize that music really was a passion,
not just a hobby.
Wow, that's awesome.
So, how were you able to transition from
that boy performing for the first time,
to international business?
I would say a series of-
a lot of learning experiences, a lot of failures,
and really paying attention to the failures of
other people that are around me.
And,
I think the biggest lesson that I learned,
transitioning from artist to business man was,
you can't- you can't really survive just being an artist.
you know that term, "starving artist"?
That's real.
There's a lot of people, a lot of musicians, painters, sculpters,
singers, actors, that really are starving
because they can't find somebody to give them work.
So, at some point I decided like,
why would I - why am I waiting on somebody else to discover me,
and give me some work, when I could just do something on my own,
and give myself some work.
Right?
And so that's when I started learning more about the business
and how to do things on my own.
and becoming more autonomous and self-reliant.
So do you think this entrepreneurship is a learned thing?
Or is it something that you just have?
It's a little bit of both.
I can tell you right now,
being an entrepreneur, being a business owner,
it sucks sometimes.
It really does.
It's not as awesome as everybody  puts it out to be
and they're like, "Oh man, it's great! You're gonna have freedom!
You're not gonna have to work for anybody,
and you get to pay yourself."
No, that's not the case all the time, like,
you're never gonna be free from working.
you always have to work for somebody.
Cause, yeah, I own the company,
but I have clients that I have to answer to, right?
Or, if I have people- if I have staff around me,
I can't just do whatever I wanna do
because if they lose faith in me as their leader,
then I have nothing.
And then, you know, on top of it,
when it comes to, like, making money,
there's a lot of personal sacrifices that you have to make,
in order to keep the business moving, so,
you know,
Pinnacle TheHustler will be looking good,
and Planet Hustle will be looking great,
but Jason Waller is like,
"Alright so,
let me see here, I got $50 that I can spend in this grocery store,
cuz I gotta use the rest of the money for Planet Hustle."
And that's just the reality of the situation.
But, because it's a business that I'm real passionate about,
and it's something that I care about and,
we have so much history behind this,
and so much potential growth in front of us,
it would be stupid for me to not make those scarifices
for the good of the company.
Right.
Yeah.
How do you find your clients?
You know what, to be honest with you,
It just happens.
It's crazy- I know that's not like a real answer,
Word-of-mouth?
Part of it is word-of-mouth,
part of it is just, being in the right place at the right time.
But all of it boils down to-
really it all boils down to hustling.
is really what it boils down to because,
being in the right place, at the right time,
means nothing if you don't have the right product,
or you don't have the right tools to get the job done.
Like, there's been a few times when
I've met people that, you know,
could really be beneficial,
but I didn't have anything to offer, at that time.
Now, I'm to the point where I meet people,
and they can help us out a lot,
and I can bring something to the table.
so now we have something that we can discuss.
And so, how I find clients is,
sometimes it's random, sometimes people contact us or,
You know, it might be word-of-mouth, a friend of a friend,
sometimes we might go out and seek somebody and say,
"Listen, we know you need this service,
so, we're gonna help you out."
So, it's just a combination of everything, but,
it all boils down to hardwork- hardwork gets around.
So, as a musician, of course there are plenty of musicians around,
but when it comes to your business and events, and products,
do you have any direct competitors in this market?
You know, it's funny because,
I feel like when people say I have no competition,
it's like a real- it's a hauty statement, right?
But,
I don't care. We really don't have any competition.
I mean, there's other promotion teams,
teams that do things around here and,
there's, you know, there's a lot of DJs
and a lot of people that are- you know what,
forget it, everybody's a promoter,
everybody's a rapper, everybody's a DJ.
My grandma's a DJ, right?
My Mom probably does promotions back home
I don't know - everybody's doing something.
But, what it boils down to is not everybody is a actual business.
Not everybody has a business license,
not everybody has the type of track record that we have.
and not everybody can produce results in a professional way that we can.
So, I mean,
I don't have any competition.
And, nobody turns up like we do.
Alright, so, when it comes to actually throwing events,
you know, and getting the crowd rocking,
like, we are totally on top of that.
So basically, nobody does exactly what you do
in the way that you do it.
Absolutely not.
Great, and can you talk a little bit about your business model,
how do you make money from your business?
Sure. I ain't trying to give up all the secrets but,
Basically what it boils down to is,
We have three - like I said before,
we have three primary areas that we focus on.
And those three areas are our primary revenue streams.
There's artist booking, artist management,
and event product marketing.
With artist booking-
actually, let's talk about event marketing and artist booking.
What I do is, I give our clients two options.
We either book the show for you,
or we'll book it and market it for you.
And if we book it and market it,
then, you know, there's no booking fee,
we'll just,
whatever the artist wants, you know, we'll take care of that fee,
and then we'll create the entire event for you.
As the client, the venue, or the club,
or the bar, or whatever,
you don't have to do anything.
Just provide whatever the money is, whatever we agree on,
and we'll take care of everything.
We'll bring people, and it'll be a smash-out event.
Some clubs prefer to do all the marketing and the promotions
and event managing and all that,
they wanna do that themselves.
So then, we'll just book it, and then if we book it,
then you know, we'll take care of managing the artist
from the time they enter the country, into the time that they leave.
So that way, as the venue,
you can focus on the things that you need to focus on.
And you don't have to worry about, if the artist is okay,
or you know,
if he doesn't have enough juice in his mini-bar at the hotel or whatever,
like we'll handle all that stuff for you.
That's one way that we make money.
The product marketing is, essentially what that is, it's product marketing.
We'll contract with the client that has something
that they need to- that they need to get to the public
in a creative way.
And, that's essentially what we do.
We think of new, creative, crazy ideas
to help market certain products or events or brands.
And then there's the artist managing.
You know, there's plenty of gigs for models,
and there's always DJ opportunities that come up and,
you know, opportunities for photographers and
videographers, and stuff like that.
The only problem is that, sometimes, there's-
sometimes there's too much opportunity.
Right? So sometimes, man, so, 3 gigs, same day,
and they overlap,
like, "I don't know how I'm gonna do this," right? So
usually, those are the biggest problems we run in to,
which are good problems,
but those are generally the ways we make money.
That's very interesting.
Do you have any plans to expand in the future?
Absolutely, absolutely.
At some point, I'm going to go to a different country
and start another branch of Planet Hustle,
and, I have a- I have a overall idea of
what I want Planet Hustle to be, globally, so,
I'll definitely be expanding to take more steps to hit other countries.
Very cool. So you consider Planet Hustle a global brand?
Absolutely, yeah.
We started in America and, you know,
now we're in Asia,
and we'll be hitting other countries in Asia as well.
You know, hopefully we'll hit another continent too, so.
That'd be cool.
How can you summarize yourself as an artist?
Dope.
Dope?
Yeah.
And business man?
Dope
Dope?
Yeah.
I mean, everything that we do is always on-point.
It's professional and it's fly.
Very cool.
And so, if someone sees this and they want to reach out to you,
how can they do that?
The easiest way is- I don't know if you can see it but,
just go to PlanetHustle.com
there's a contact form there, you can just send us an email.
or you can look me up on social media.
All the social media is @iAmPinnacle
So, Facebook.com/iAmPinnacle
Twitter, Instagram.com/iAmPinnacle
Very cool.
And is there anything else you'd like to mention
about yourself or your business?
Check out my new music video,
you definitely should go see that.
It's called, "Sweatin'."
Just look it up on YouTube.
There's a lot of- a lot of attractive scenery in that video.
Very good.
Alright, thank you Jason.
No doubt, thank you. I appreciate it.
Of course.
Do you prefer Jason or Pinnacle?
It doesn't matter, whatever makes you more comfortable.
Ah, Pinnacle. That sounds more natural.
Alright, call me Pinnacle then.
Alright.
Alright cool.
Sounds good
Alright, thank you.
Thank you.

Hi, can you introduce yourself?
Absolutely. My name is Nathan Millard.
I'm from the UK.
And, currently living in Asia.
Spent almost 10 years here, now.
Wow, and can you tell me a little bit about your company?
Yeah, of course.
So I founded G3 partners,
which is the name of my company,
about 5 months ago.
And we're a company- PR agency, really,
and we focus exclusively on the needs of startups,
technology startups in Asia.
I believe we're the first company to do so.
So, I think we're looking at a great opportunity
to help startups and build a great business ourselves.
Great, and what does G3 Partners stand for?
Good question.
So the "G" is for global.
We're very focused on helping our clients go global.
Many of them are small companies that want to
expand beyond their domestic borders.
So, that's the "G."
The "3" is for the three key services we're offering,
So that 's PR, obviously public relations,
IR, which is investor relations,
and training, so that's global communications training.
And what's your position within the company?
I'm the Founder and CEO,
so I've got all the risk.
And can you tell me a little bit about your team?
Or are you just starting off as well?
Sure, we're still a very small, young company.
We are growing fairly quickly, I guess.
We're getting clients now from across Asia,
and now in the U.S, as well.
So at the moment, we have three people in Seoul.
And recently hired someone in Malaysia, as well.
So as our client base also grows across the region,
I think it's very important for us
to have people positioned in, you know,
in the places where our clients need their support.
And what made you want to focus on tech startups
for your PR business, as opposed to other industries?
Good question.
So, I've worked in and with major corporations and,
I actually spent many years,
trying to forge a corporate career,
and it never really worked.
I'd spend 6 months in a big company,
and basically get bored of it,
and move to the next one.
And then I discovered entrepreneurship and startups,
and just found it fascinating.
I think there's so much passion,
so much energy,
so much excitement about what, you know, people are doing,
that I really wanted to get involved so,
initially I was supporting startups myself,
from within another company,
actually a media company,
and then I guess I caught the entrepreneur bug myself,
and decided to setup my own company.
Great, and, can you tell me a little bit about working in Asia,
how is that different from the U.K or the U.S?
Asia is very, very different.
I first came to Asia as an English teacher,
which is what many people do, I think,
kind of, fairly soon after I graduated from university,
I spent my first year in a corporate job in London,
and really didn't like it, so I wanted something completely different.
I- you know, the first 6 months to a year,
working in Asia,
was almost like a honeymoon period.
I just loved it.
You know, almost every morning, I'd wake up and think,
Wow, I'm in Asia.
You know, the culture is very different,
everything was new and exciting,
I guess after you've been here for a few years,
you get used to it.
For some people, they're not made for Asia.
For me, I love it.
It's a very different culture,
there's a very different work culture, as well,
I think, you know, obviously, there's some difficulties
of living in a culture
where you don't necessarily understand the language,
but I've enjoyed it.
I think I'll be here for a long time still.
Great, and do you have any competitors?
Competitors...
it's very foolish to say you never have a competitor.
However, with G3 Partners,
I've not yet come across a company that does
exactly what we do in this geography.
There's a lot of companies that do
basically the same thing
that are based in the U.S and Europe,
but they focus on those markets primarily,
and, of course, there's hundreds of PR agencies
in Asia, as well.
But as far as I've come across,
none that's focused very specifically on startups.
So, I think it's a- that's a great opportunity,
but it also comes with it's challenges.
You know, if you're building-
if you're the only company operating in your market,
it means you have to build the market
and educate the market as well, so,
There- there is some of that,
but I think that we are positioned to lead this market,
and I hope that we have some competitors fairly soon
to help us educate the market and grow with us, in the market.
Great, so you specialize in PR for tech startups,
can you explain a little bit about what PR you do?
Sure, so, again, there's a fairly young company,
I want to keep things fairly focused,
so, we're really focusing on what I would call,
pure PR,
which is basically helping startups
get featured in online publications.
So within the tech industry,
there is a major series of international blogs
like TechCrunch, VentureBeat, Mashable, Wired,
there's many of them, mainly based in the U.S.
We help our clients get featured in those blogs,
but there's also now an increasing interest
in the major international news publications,
in following what's happening in tech,
because it's a growing industry,
that's impacting a huge population in the world,
so we're able to get our clients featured in the likes of
Forbes', Reuters, Wall Street Journal as well.
So you must have a good network of connections,
in order to get these features in such big publications.
Yes, your network can never be strong enough.
and with writers,
perhaps somewhat annoyingly, they seem to keep changing jobs,
so it's a little tricky to track them.
But yes, successful PR is based on the ability to
write a good story  and then to get that story published
in public- in publications,
and that does rely on a strong network.
So, we are- we work daily on building our network,
and maintaining existing relationships with writers,
and that's really key to success in our business.
Very cool.
And do you do your own PR?
Or any other type of marketing for your business?
To be honest at the moment,
I think because of the existing networks that I had with startups,
in the Asia region,
from my previous work as a writer,
myself,
so far, we've really actually not have done much PR
or marketing ourselves.
I think we're- we're getting to a point where
we're perhaps ready to reach out to the press ourselves,
and tell a wider audience what we're doing.
but so far, our clients have come through word of mouth,
or people that we've met, in person,
who values the service we're providing
and I think that's good,
it's a good, kind of, legitimization, of what we're doing,
that people are talking about what we're doing,
in a positive way.
And I think that's the best kind of marketing, anyway.
Yeah, that's great.
and where do you see the future of this kind of service going?
PR is a fairly established industry.
I think there's a lot of companies like us,
who are trying to look at PR in a slightly different way.
Clients are always looking for ROI - return investment.
which is quite a difficult thing to guarantee with PR.
So what we're trying to do is to get to a point
where we can guarantee ROI, a little bit more.
And I think, you know, having worked with technology startups,
is also a huge opportunity
to integrate technology into our industry,
to streamline processes, to increase efficiency,
and to reduce costs, and basically,
to return a better result to our clients.
Now at the moment, we are focusing on pure PR
I think a year from now,
I hope that my business will look quite different.
I hope that there will be a number of
technology services that we're able to offer clients
at a very - at a very good cost point,
at a very low cost point.
That hopefully are very competitive
with some of the major agencies,
who, perhaps, are still conducting PR in the old way.
Great, great.
And how can potential clients find you now?
Hopefully very easily.
If you type, "startup PR," into Google for Asia,
then we are the top hit.
So, that's the easiest way.
Also, feel free to reach out to me by email.
You can find me- or you can contact me at
Nathan@G3Partners.asia
which is also our website.
You can find us on Twitter, @G3Partners,
and you can find us on Facebook as well,
so I think we're fairly visible already,
and hopefully, that will continue to develop as well.
Very good. Is there anything else you'd like to mention
about G3 Partners?
Sure, so, as I've kind of said,
we're a startup PR agency that is based in Asia.
We focus on the Asian market,
we're helping our clients expand beyond their domestic borders,
both within Asia and the U.S,
and interestingly, we're already being contacted by
U.S companies who want to expand into Asia.
So, if you have any PR requirements related to Asia,
we'd love to speak to you.
Awesome.
Good, well thank you Nathan.
I appreciate your time.
Thank you very much, indeed. Thank you.

Hi.
Hi, how are you?
Pretty good. Can you introduce yourself?
Sure. My name is Todd Sample.
And, I have lived in Korea for 20 years.
It's a pretty long time.
I'm originally from the United States.
But consider Korea, and Seoul, specifically, to be my home now.
At present, I'm doing some interesting things.
I have....
I'm preparing for a new business, on one hand,
and I'm also doing some other things on the side.
Some consulting and some networking events, as well.
So, yeah.
I feel that Korea is a country that gives me
the chance to do a lot of interesting things and so,
I try to do as many of them as I can.
Great, can you tell me about one of the projects you're working on?
Sure, well, as I've mentioned,
I've been here for a long time.
And I- my career path has included
small business, large corporations,
and after spending 8 years at two different Korean companies,
I decided to leave and
kind of follow an area that I was personally interested in,
but also, I saw very- market with high potential,
which was men's tailoring - so tailored suits.
I don't have a background in tailoring or,
even clothing but,
I have strong interests in style, and always had and,
my experience working in Korean corporations
has taught me that Korean guys need a little help in the style department,
and, I thought that through this business,
which, of course, also targets foreign population in Korea,
that perhaps I could add a little bit more
to the aesthetics of men living on the Korean peninsula.
So, decided to start that tailoring business
and I did that a little bit over a year ago,
And, for that period of time, I learned a lot.
but one of the things that I learned is that
I prefer working on my own as opposed to working with partners,
so now, I'm in the process of- I just left the company-
and I'm in the process of starting something new.
So, how do you compare, say, that business,
and any future business,
with already established companies that are locally owned
with local owners.
Well,
what I find here is that,
many of the companies, the tailor shops,
they do things the same way.
They market the same way, they look the same way,
And, I knew that I could do it differently.
So, I've been an active member of the community,
for a long time,
I have a very strong network.
Some people criticize me because they say-
when they say, "You don't have a background in tailoring."
I can look at them and say, "Your only background is tailoring."
So, my background is business and I know people.
and, for any kind of start-up in Korea,
it's not easy to- to get customers coming into your shop
from the get-go but,
I've had a lot of luck in doing that,
and I attribute this to the network that I have,
and the relationships that I've nurtured over a long period of time,
and,
of course, I'm also thankful that
Koreans have found it interesting that
a foreign person is doing business in an unusual sector,
many foreigners in Korea, they'll work at a corporation,
or if they want to do individual businesses,
they'll do a restaurant or a bar,
but, tailored suits?
It's quite unique,
and so, I've gotten a lot of press coverage
newspaper interviews, magazines, TV,
and I will continue to maximize those opportunities.
Great, and what got you interested in fashion?
I think one of the- well, as I said,
from a child, I've always been interested
in being a little bit different from everybody else,
But being here, specifically,
I think the ability to- well, what I'll say is this-
Korea is a pretty judgmental society,
and they look at you one time and,
they determine where you are, in relation to them.
And because it's a judgmental society,
you can't really escape that,
but you can control,
if they judge you in a positive way, or if they judge you in a negative way,
and, first impressions very important,
not just here, but anywhere.
And so, if you're walking down the street,
and someone compliments you on how you're looking,
you win.
So, I've found that in the companies where I've worked,
always dressing dapperly and,
taking care of my appearance and,
having shined shoes and,
interesting socks on,
has resulted in a lot of positive attention that
I think, through this business model,
I can help other people achieve that too, so.
Sounds great.
Yeah, it's interesting.
Now, what other projects have you worked on in the past
or currently working on?
One of the things I'm doing-
I started it actually as a-
well, several reasons why I started,
one of them, of course, was marketing.
So, I started a networking event,
so it's a business networking event I hold every month,
once a month,
and it attracts a wide variety of
the international and Korean business community here in Seoul.
Every event that I have,
my shops brand was attached to the event.
We gave away a tailored shirt, or a tuxedo rental,
at the end of the event through a lucky draw.
So, it was a really good marketing exercise,
and marketing opportunity for my company.
But more so than that,
I find that, nowadays, there are a lot more foreign people coming to Korea,
they don't have a local network like I have,
and if I can help them develop their local network,
and also get to know some foreign people, as well,
working in embassy's or working in other companies
that perhaps, they could find some kind of synergy,
that it would be a valuable opportunity for me,
and beneficial for other people as well.
So, yeah.
So, I started a networking event called
Wine on Wednesday
and, yeah, it's going pretty well.
We had 150 people last time,
last month, and looking for a similar amount this month.
And yeah, so hopefully gonna continue to try and make that grow.
And what are the demographics of this kind of event?
Well, when we first envisioned it,
we were hoping that it was going to be quite balanced
in terms of the international attendees and Korean attendees,
and of course, men and women.
If it's all men, it's kind of boring,
if it's all women, it's also boring,
so, we were hoping for quite a natural balance,
and ideally, we've gotten that.
So we have about 50% Korean attendees,
50% foreign attendees,
50% guys, and 50% women.
So, it's just the way it has- it's happened naturally,
and these are people that work at large Korean corporations,
large international corporations, company heads,
diplomats, individual business owners,
people who are looking for jobs,
people who are looking to find jobs for other people,
a lot of members of the service industry-
consultants, lawyers,
so, it's a really eclectic cross-section of the business community here
and so, we're trying to increase that.
You seem to have a lot of knowledge about
marketing and business,
so, how did you get your start in that field and,
did you study business?
I think, being an observer of your surroundings
is a really important start, so
academic background aside,
being a foreigner in Korea, we have a different perspective
than many Koreans do,
we look at things a little bit differently,
and, we opportunities there.
So for me, I wanted to-
in addition to these observations,
that I wanted to add a little bit of academic background, too.
So, I did, during my time here,
I have pursued an MBA.
And focused on marketing, specifically nation marketing,
because at the time I was doing the degree,
I was working for the National Trade-Investment Promotion agency,
trying to attract foreign investment into Korea.
And so we were promoting, telling people about Korea,
telling Korea's story and,
why Korea was a good destination for foreign investment, so
I think from my observations and my academic experience,
doing the MBA and also,
working in the companies where I've worked,
yeah, I've had a good hands-on and also academic background,
in regards to marketing and PR.
Great.
And, tell me a little about where you're from and,
you know, where you went to school.
I'm from a small town in Pennsylvania.
The population was roughly 3,000 people and,
my high school class was 120.
And it's kind of interesting that we grew up
surrounded by cornfields and forests but,
of those 120 people, I would say
a good 10% or 15% of them are now overseas somewhere.
Many of them had advanced degrees
from excellent universities in the States and,
have taken their knowledge and backgrounds
to other markets, and they're doing well,
and we still keep in touch.
It's kind of the- it's a great place to grow up,
but it's also a good place to leave
because you feel limited by the opportunities-
the lack of opportunities that are there.
I went off to school and studied Art History.
When I first chose my major, a lot of people were like,
"Well, that's like a basket-weaving major.
You're not gonna make money from that.
Like, how are you gonna monetize your degree?"
And, frankly I didn't think about that.
It wasn't really a priority to me.
I thought, "I'm interested in this field. I want to study it for that reason."
And, I did.
I don't regret it. If I could go back, I'd probably do the same thing,
because,
it's given me perspective
not just in regard to art but,
in regard to how I observe things
from an aesthetic point of view.
Several years ago, I actually organized a major art exhibit
here in Seoul with a friend of mine and,
yeah, with a quite famous American artist,
who is dead, but his art is still well known around the world and,
we contacted his foundation and brought the art here and,
I would say we had, over the total run of the exhibit,
150,000 visitors, so yeah. It wasn't small.
It wasn't small. And I think if I didn't have this art history background or,
yeah, I would have not been able to pull that off.
Yeah, no. It was a really good experience.
Alright, so tell me. What's the next step for you?
Well, I plan on using lessons learned from
the business that I was operating
for the last, little over one year.
This is my 20th year in Korea so,
I'm looking at it as my first half of my Korea career is finished now,
and the next half is right in front of me so,
I wanna use the experience that I've gained over that time and,
probably, I'm gonna start a business before the end of the year,
which is going to be similar to the tailor shop that I have but,
I'm gonna try and add an online aspect to it,
because I think the market for this service is
not just in Korea, it's overseas as well.
I want to continue to nurture this networking event that I'm doing,
Wine on Wednesday.
It's growing, people are interested in it.
We're trying to get some corporate sponsorship,
so if we get corporate sponsorship, then we can really grow it,
and really create a lot of value and,
who knows, that could become my full-time job, too.
And yeah, I just- I want to continue learning Korean,
one of my goals this year is to gain dual-citizenship here,
because that's going to help me with a lot of the
that administrative issues that are part of operating a business in Korea.
And, so that's a big goal and,
I'm also writing a book, so yeah.
A lot on the plate right now but,
the place where I am gives me the opportunity
to do a lot of things and meet a lot of people and,
I think I would be a fool, not to take advantage of it, so yeah.
Great, definitely. I appreciate everything,
and thanks a lot, Todd.
Yeah, thank you very much for your time.
Alright.

Good afternoon everyone.
My name is Todd Sample.
And today I'm going to tell you a little bit about myself,
where I'm from, what I'm doing, what I'm interested in.
And I hope that it's interesting to you and beneficial.
And at the end if you have any questions,
I'll be happy to answer some of them for you.
I'm sure you're familiar with the United States.
Pretty big country.
Actually, I am from the small state of Pennsylvania on the East Coast.
And I thought, "Okay, what is Pennsylvania famous for?"
And well other than historical reasons, I thought food
because everybody likes food.
So, there were three foods that I thought that you should know about
that are- that originate in my home state of Pennsylvania.
The first one is... anybody know?
The Chi- or the Philadelphia cheesesteak, right.
So, this is a really famous sandwich
in our state's biggest city, Philadelphia.
And as you can see, it's a piece of bread with steak on it
and some cheese, melted cheese, onions and peppers
and people from Philadelphia love this sandwich.
They think it's their home sandwich.
People who travel to Philadelphia they feel,
Ah, I have to eat a Philly cheesesteak before I leave.
The second one, I'm sure everyone is familiar with as well.
This is a Hershey bar.
And Hershey, is actually the name of a town in Pennsylvania.
And if you go there the air smells like chocolate. Really.
A lot of people think I'm joking, but actually I've been there
and the air does smell like chocolate especially near the factory.
So, if you've eaten a Hershey's chocolate bar,
you can think about my home state of Pennsylvania.
And the third one, this is something you might not be familiar with,
but this is called a whoopie pie.
And a whoopie Pie is, as you can see,
is two pieces of chocolate cake and
in the middle of that is this really creamy, 
delicious white whipped cream.
And we make them at home.
We put them in the refrigerator.
We eat them cold. We eat them warm.
They're really good.
So, I think now you have a general idea of three
representative foods of my home state of Pennsylvania.
I hope you have a chance to go there someday.
So... I went to university, and I have a bachelor's degree and
a masters degree.
I studied, back in my bachelor school days, art history.
This is a major that, actually many people are not so familiar with.
Of course art, as a major, where you're drawing or painting,
or taking photographs is a common major,
but studying the history of that is
something that I was kind of interested in.
When I was a kid I enjoyed going to museums
and learning about the reasons why people painted like that,
or the reasons why people carved a sculpture like that
at a certain time in history.
So for me it was a really interesting major to study.
As a result, I had a chance to study in another country,
and it was a very good experience for me.
So, I don't know if any of you haven't entered university yet,
but if you're looking for a fun and interesting major,
art history is perhaps something you can consider.
Later on, after working for a few years, as many people do,
I wanted to learn a little bit more about the business field.
And so, I decided that perhaps the best way to do that
to get a little bit of academic knowledge
as opposed to like real life knowledge,
is by obtaining an MBA, Masters of Business Administration.
So, I studied for about 2 years,
and I focused primarily on marketing and PR.
All right, so that was my focus.
And I recommend anyone who wants
to learn a little bit more about business in a practical sense,
that perhaps studying an MBA is a good idea for you.
My hobbies. Of course life is not all about business.
Life is about fun and leisure as well.
Life nowadays is pretty stressful.
and one of the ways that I try to relieve my stress is by cooking.
So, for me, I enjoy the whole process.
I enjoy going to the market,
choosing the freshest vegetables, and the freshest fish,
and the freshest meat, and then taking it home.
I don't know if any of you enjoy cooking,
but for me, when I start cooking, the most important step,
before I even start slicing the vegetables or cutting things
is opening a bottle of wine and drinking it.
Drink- not the bottle, just a glass.
So for me this kind of helps me relieve my stress.
Cooking is really a therapeutic activity for me.
And of course at the end when I'm ready to eat- Eating is great,
but for me actually, I enjoy sharing the food that I made
with my friends, with my family,
and hope that they enjoy it as much as I do.
When I'm not cooking, and I have some free time,
I do enjoy shopping.
I enjoy shopping for clothes.
I enjoy shopping for shoes, for glasses, socks, neckties, shirts...
It's kind of an addiction for me,
and I try to control it a little bit,
but it's not always easy
especially when there's some really cool stuff out there,
So, I don't spend all of my money on clothes and things like that.
but I worry someday, if I really become wealthy,
maybe most of my money will go to some really nice shoes.
I wanted to share something with you today.
Something difficult that I experienced in my life.
And of course, life is fun sometimes and it's enjoyable,
but other times we have experiences 
that are actually quite difficult.
And sometimes we don't know 
exactly how to get around that problem
or how to overcome it.
But, if life was always easy, it wouldn't be that interesting.
So, we do need these kinds of difficulties from time to time
to figure out perhaps the best way
or a different way of doing something.
And for me, as you can see, by the slide here,
there's one red person amongst a sea of people
who look just the same.
And my experience is that,
as I told you before,
I grew up in the United States,
but I when I moved overseas,
I was the only foreign person working in a local company.
And, the culture was quite different,
the language was quite different.
and I was all by myself in this company.
Of course, it wasn't all bad.
There were some very good things about this experience,
but when you're the only one
everybody notices what you're doing,
who you're eating lunch with,
when you make a mistake,
everyone starts talking about it.
And so, you always feel that everyone's eyes-
the target is always on your forehead here.
And language was also an issue because
the language that I was speaking was not English,
and so you have to understand the foreign language in meetings and
on documents that you receive or emails.
So of course it was hard at the beginning,
but this also motivated me to learn 
the language a little bit more quickly.
So, I don't recommend that everyone tries to
purposely enter difficult situations in their lives,
but if you have the opportunity 
someday to work in a different country,
I think it is a really good learning experience,
despite the difficulties you will have at the beginning.
You might think that this slide and the previous slide are kind of similar.
Well, they are in a sense,
but I wanted to think- I wanted to tell you something about myself
that I felt distinguishes me from other people.
And in the country where I'm living right now,
I'm actually quite involved in networking.
And as you know, networking is bringing people together,
and providing a place where they can meet, where they can talk.
Maybe they can exchange business cards.
And ideally, they can perhaps start some business together.
So, for me, I felt that this was a really good opportunity.
I'm kind of in the middle of it because I'm the organizer,
so people know who I am. This helps me.
But on the other hand, 
I can also help people- help bring people together.
Help create opportunities for them.
And I think it's a win-win situation for everybody.
So, this is one of the things that I feel about myself
that kind of differentiates me from other people.
I'm really am-  I'm really interested in bringing people together,
connecting them and of course, as a result, creating new value.
I wasn't always involved in networking,
In fact, after university when I decided to move overseas,
I didn't come as a business person.
I didn't have a business background academically.
I came as an English teacher.
So, for me, today, I'm not doing that kind of work,
but actually if I think about it,
the fact that I started my career as a teacher,
it gave me confidence.
It gave me the ability to understand different people because
I was meeting with students every day and hearing their situations
and trying to help them,
and recognizing what each of their
unique difficulties or challenges was,
and then trying to help them overcome that.
So, public speaking as well is
another opportunity that I gained through teaching.
So now, unlike many people,
I feel quite comfortable speaking in front of large groups of people
and I attribute my confidence in doing that to my days as a teacher.
So, what am I doing today?
Well, I do a lot of things.
Some people have one career path.
For me, I find that where I'm living now,
there are many opportunities to do many different things.
So, my main job is operating a tailor shop.
So, I enjoy, as I told you before, I enjoy shopping.
I enjoy looking good.
I enjoy men's style and helping others find their own style.
So a few years ago, I decided to open a tailor shop.
And through this shop,
I'm helping men become a little bit more stylish,
understand what good style is and what not so good style is,
and hopefully making the world a more beautiful place.
I also enjoy networking, as I told you before,
So this is a picture of me at a networking event that I organized.
And, again, bringing people together, introducing new people,
creating new value, this is what I'm doing.
And the third picture at the bottom,
is... I actually do a little bit of modeling from time to time.
So sometimes magazines call
and they want me to pose for some photographs or have an interview.
And this is something that I really enjoy,
something about my work about my areas of interest
that I really enjoy doing.
So I don't know if you've ever had the chance
to stand in front of a camera and pose
and have people take pictures of you,
at the beginning it's a little bit nervous,
but after you start to do it for awhile 
you become a little bit better at it.
Well, I know today's time together was a little bit brief,
but I wanted to share some information about me.
A little bit of general information.
And I hope it was beneficial. I hope it was interesting to all of you.
And again, thank you very much for listening.

Okay, today- again, my name is Todd Sample,
and I'm going to tell you a little bit about
something that I'm doing,
on the side, in addition to my regular job.
I'm living in a city that's not my home city,
it's not my hometown, it's not my home country,
and when you're in a foreign city,
one of the most important things to do is
to make sure you're connected with people
As a foreign person,
sometimes you're at a disadvantage,
because you don't know the local systems,
you don't know the local people,
sometimes you don't know the local language.
So, if you're able to build a network,
and a strong network with the right people,
then your life in that country becomes a little bit easier.
So, based on this,
I decided to start organizing a networking event.
So, the name of my networking event is,
Wine on Wednesday Seoul
and, it takes place in Seoul once a month,
at the- towards the end of every month,
on a Wednesday night,
and so far, we've had all of our networking events
in Myungdong, at a hotel.
But, we don't have a permanent venue.
I think as the event is growing,
as I mentioned, last month, we had over 150 people,
so soon,
that hotel where we're having it now,
is going to be too small.
So, we'll have to find a new venue for it.
Moreover, when you have the event at the same venue, every time,
people, overtime, get a little bit sick of it.
They want something new.
So, now that it's summer time,
perhaps for the July edition of Wine on Wednesday,
we're going to find a hotel that has a swimming pool,
so that we can meet with wine,
next to the pool, and yeah.
Maybe jump in.
So,
Wine on Wednesday,
it is, again, over 150 people,
half Korean, half international,
half men, half women,
and the ages are from late 20s to early 50s.
it's really a diverse group of people,
we have people representing large Korean corporations,
like Hyundai and Samsung and,
Kia Motors, Hyundai...
we have other people attending
who are from very small companies
that you've never even heard of before,
but they're doing interesting things and,
their markets are also international.
We have young business people,
who are doing their own businesses,
that are looking to grow and find new clients,
and new partners,
but I think right now,
as the business environment, here in Seoul is changing,
it's becoming more diverse.
So, we have a lot of people doing really interesting things,
and they're not always targeting the local markets,
and they're not always targeting the international market.
But, if through this event,
they can find potential connections
to new opportunities,
that's kind of the goal.
So, again,
with Wine on Wednesday,
you can find us online.
We have a Facebook page, no website,
but we have a Facebook page.
It's Facebook.com/WineOnWednesdaySeoul.
So, find us on Facebook,
check us out.
There is a cost to attend Wine on Wednesday,
but wine is unlimited, the food is unlimited,
and, of course, you're going to meet really great people there.
If you come in a group, we have a discounted rate.
So, we wanted to create an event
that's not a burden financially,
If you're going out with friends to have a dinner,
you're probably going to spend 50,000 to 60,000 won or more,
so , at our event for 50,000 won,
you can have a really great night with some really good people,
and have a good time.
So, thank you again,
for listening to my brief introduction of Wine on Wednesday.
And, I hope to see you there at the next event.